justification	The National Cancer Institute, Surgeon General of the United States and National Institutes of Health all support smoking bans	BECAUSE of the statistics of second-hand smoke.
justification	Smoking bans are also imposed	 because they improve air quality in restaurants and other establishments.
justification	Smoking bans are also imposed because they improve air quality in restaurants and other establishments.	In New York, it is now illegal to smoke in all hospitality venues.
justification	Tobacco smoke can cause cancer, strokes and heart disease.	Smoking does not just harm the smoker it also harms people nearby, who breathe in the smoke.
justification	Society accepts that adults can decide to harm themselves to some extent, so long as they do not harm others.	This is why the proposition is not arguing that people should be banned from smoking in private.
justification	Workers should not be exposed to other people’s smoke	 SINCE they may not have made a free choice to do so.
justification	It is legal to smoke tobacco, so governments have no right to try to make people stop.	It is therefore wrong to argue that a ban on public smoking should be introduced to encourage people to give up.
justification	In any case, heavy smokers are unlikely to give up	 SINCE they are addicted to nicotine.
justification	This will harm other people in their house, particularly children.	This is important, SINCE children are not old enough to choose freely to smoke passively.
justification	Also, people smoking at home may drink more alcohol than they would if they went to a bar.	This is BECAUSE they can buy it more cheaply at a supermarket or off-licence.
justification	Pubs and clubs should adapt, FOR EXAMPLE by trying to earn more money from selling food.	After a ban was introduced in New South Wales (Australia), only 9% of restaurants reported a drop in trade.
justification	In many places, pubs and Working Men’s Clubs are important social places for communities.	They also provide jobs for people with few skills in places with little other work. It is therefore important that they survive.
justification	Moreover, the policy of smoking ban also covers workplaces.	Numerous countries have adopted this policy till date, and several people have voiced their varied opinions about the same.
justification	The underlying fact, however, is that it is very difficult to land up on a firm conclusion on whether or not such bans should be imposed, and if yes, then to what extent.	A recent study showed that smoking bans imposed in public places and workplaces, resulted into lesser instances of deaths and hospitalizations due to respiratory problems, heart attacks, and cancer.
justification	Smoking retards the growth of a foetus, and leads to increased chances of premature births. The same effect is also seen in case of the non-smokers, exposed to large amounts of second-hand smoke.	Thus, smoking bans not only lower the percentage of premature deliveries, but also help in the promotion of values regarding health from the early stages of life.
justification	Also, a smoking ban makes it more and more difficult for the smokers to find places, where they can go and smoke.	This inconvenience that is caused to them, may also many times make them give up their habit.
justification	The reduction in the amount of smoking, and of the number of smokers that takes place as an effect of the smoking ban, would result in much lesser chances of the non-smokers getting influenced by the smokers, and entering into the habit.	Thus, a smoking ban may lead to lesser number of new smokers BECAUSE smoking under a ban would seem like an unwanted and an illegal thing to do.
justification	Risks due to fire are also lessened to a large extent due to smoking bans.	Fire is a risk when more and more people smoke BECAUSE we are surrounded by innumerable flammable materials such as oil, wood, plastic, rubber, paper, etc. If a smoker forgets to extinguish his cigarette after smoking, chances of these materials, and many more, catching fire that may lead to fatalities, are extremely high.
justification	The reduction in the number of patrons would earn them lesser profits, thus leading to financial difficulties.	In such cases, the risk of more and more employees losing their jobs is elevated.
justification	Though a smoking ban may seem like a brilliant idea to control the potential dangers, it is not always easy to implement at all places.	Many times, it is extremely difficult for businesses to disallow their patrons from smoking in their premises, ESPECIALLY if the patrons insist on the same
justification	However, this choice poses health risks to others, ESPECIALLY when smokers light up in public areas.	Medline Plus estimates that the United States would see 18,000 fewer heart attacks within a year if each state passes a complete ban on smoking in public places.
justification	Today, fewer people smoke	 BECAUSE of health concerns and cost, as well as bans that cities and states have imposed.
justification	Any other diner or employee bothered by the smoke could not take legal recourse	BECAUSE the city has no sanctions against it.
justification	Los Gatos has already banned it and SO has the county.	I don’t think that our businesses are in as a competitive disadvantage as they may think.
justification	But if people don’t want to patronize a restaurant BECAUSE of smoking, that’s your choice.	These are places that people go to because they can have a drink and a cigarette
justification	Many pubs, cafeterias and restaurants have lost patrons BECAUSE of the smoking ban.	In fact, many employees in these establishments have even lost their jobs.
justification	Many youngsters have started smoking just BECAUSE smoking is banned.	They do so because of the attraction of the forbidden object.
negative	Alcohol is alSO damaging to your health.	However, sitting beside someone having a pint will not endanger MY health.
justification	I am a smoker and I think a ban like this would help me at least cut down	 BECAUSE of the hassle of going outside for a cigarette.
justification	Allowing places to choose whether or not to ban smoking won't work	 BECAUSE with only a small number of places doing it, profits will suffer.
justification	I think it's unfair.	Just BECAUSE people smoke shouldn't mean they are treated any different from everyone else.
justification	So many restaurants and bars would do SO much better if they became 100% non-smoking.	I think a majority of people in the UK would approve this.
justification	I can understand banning smoking where food is served but a blanket ban is irrational and unnecessary.	UK pubs and bars have a culture all of their own, SO lumping them in with other public places is misleading.
justification	People who say it should be a consumer choice; come off it,	 SINCE when has a voluntary code worked?I think that the ban is great but can't help thinking that there will be masses of people standing outside the pub with their pints smoking away.
justification	Bars and pubs damage people's health by also serving alcohol, many to excess.	So why can't people choose, they can go to a smoky bar or a clean air bar.
justification	It is estimated that about 70% of the Irish population does not smoke	 SO why should we let the other 30% possibly harm our health?
justification	I think the law worked in this city	because the vast majority of the population supported the new law and research shows that the hospitality industry in that city has benefited.
justification	Three quarters of the population don't smoke	SO there is simply no justification for the rights of a minority to dictate to those of the majority.
justification	Many people have their first cigarette in places like pubs and bars 	BECAUSE the people they are with are smoking, and there is some kind of implicit social or peer pressure to do so
justification	Many people have their first cigarette in places like pubs and bars 	A total ban on smoking in public places could not only make our public places cleaner and more pleasant but also limit the number of people taking up this unfortunate habit in the first place.
justification	In addition, contrary to what the hospitality industry fears, its business would increase	 BECAUSE more people who would otherwise have stayed away from restaurants, bars etc, will now be able to go. This has proven to be the case in every place where a ban has been tried.
justification	I do think an outright ban on smoking is excessive	 simply BECAUSE for as long as tobacco is legal to possess and legal to use it is inappropriate to ban its use.
justification	It's bad for a person, and bad for the environment.	Its bad for the environment BECAUSE the smoke goes in the air and causes pollution. It's a major cause for second hand smoke, lung cancer, and death.
justification	People shouldn't smoke in public places	 BECAUSE kids have lung problems and the smoke doesn't help the problem!
justification	If smoking was banned, then heart-related sicknesses could possibly lower just like it did in the places where it was banned.	Since second-hand smoke is just as bad as directly smoking something.
justification	Smoking should be banned.	Yes, it should be banned because people who smoke say that they have paid enough so why should they be forbidden to smoke, but it is not the non-smoker fault that they had spend so much money on cigarettes, it was their own choice.
justification	Smoking should be banned.	Also, there are many diseases, such as cancer and cirrhosis that can be easily developed in a living body not just in a smoker one but in the liver that is needed by the one that is smoking.
justification	Smoking also causes pollution and people who smoke leave their cigarettes everywhere they can (on the ground, in the grass, on the plants). 	But the biggest concern is that millions of forests have burned in the past decade just because smokers leave them lit up.
justification	Finally, It could also help some people quit smoking.	If people were allowed to smoke in public places they may not be as motivated to stop smoking as they are with not being allowed to smoke in public areas.
justification	Tobacco smoke is no worse than exhaust fumes.	People have no problem standing by endless amounts of idling and moving vehicles, so they shouldn't mind someone smoking nearby.
justification	You can also die from alcohol poisoning, or food poisoning, or overdosing, or even by crashing your car! But that doesn't mean that people stop drinking, or eating, or doing drugs, or driving! 	Why make it a law that smoking should be banned?
justification	Don't go make a law BECAUSE you're uncomfortable.	Once you take away smoking, people start taking other things away that are "harmful" to the public.
justification	Smoking should defiantly be banned in public places.	The places they do allow smoking might lose a bit of money, but it will also help with the health problems that occur.
justification	Also, businesses are not losing a little bit of money, there are bars that have been there for years all around me that are being completely shut down.	All BECAUSE people will not go there BECAUSE they cannot smoke.
evidence	Obviously, the cloud of smoke exactly disturbs other people; ESPECIALLY non-smokers feeling.	Imagine sitting in a restaurant unable to enjoy the meal because of the smoke from neighbour's table.
justification	It should be banned 	because the percentage of non-smokers is higher than active smokers so non-smokers have right to clean air and also second hand smoke is more dangerous than actually smoking as well.
justification	All of the older kids smoke so the younger kids like to be influenced by the Juniors and Seniors.	They will eventually start and get into the habit of smoking.
justification	They will eventually start and get into the habit of smoking.	Its also very unhealthy.
justification	They will eventually start and get into the habit of smoking.	Secondly, being in a restaurant and having to smell that smoke while eating is not only disrespectful but also disturbing and once again not healthy.
justification	I really feel that smoking in public places should be banned	 because not only is it harming the health of smokers, but also the health of others around them.
justification	in my opinion, smoking in public places, especially places with a lot of people is a pretty selfish thing to do.	second-hand smoke is harmful, just like smoking is.
justification	I really feel that smoking in public places should be banned	 BECAUSE not only is it harming the health of smokers, but alSO the health of others around them.
justification	in my opinion, smoking in public places, ESPECIALLY places with a lot of people is a pretty selfish thing to do.	smoking seriously harms people's lungs, but so can second-hand smoke.
justification	i find that second hand smoke is very annoying	 BECAUSE everytime i walk past someone smoking, i always feel that i have to hold my breath.
justification	But a complete ban is not necessary.	I mean, those public places can save up some money so they can build special areas for non-smokers and those areas would be vent. This way would thank both parts: the part of population that smokes and love smoking while at a restaurant and the part of population that doesn't smoke and can't stand the smoke.
justification	It needs to be banned! Smoking needs to be banned	 BECAUSE of people with asthma can't or barley breath when smoke is around.
justification	It needs to be banned! Smoking needs to be banned	Non-smokers should not have to suffer from the very poor choices of smokers.
justification	In my opinion, smoking should be banned in public places.	That is BECAUSE non-smokers should not be forced to second-hand smoke against their will.
evidence	Even though it is an obvious etiquette not to smoke when surrounded by many people, a large number of smokers don't seem to care SO much about it.	For example, it's not that hard to find a person smoking at a bus stop even if there are little girls around him/her.
justification	Another reason why smoking should be banned in public places is BECAUSE of the garbage problem.	Not many smokers throw away their cigarette butts into the trash cans.
justification	So people should be allowed to drive for as fast as they want regardless if this can lead to car accidents which can do harms to other people.	And smoking should be allowed too BECAUSE smokers aren't stupid and do not care about their health even if the smoke they produce can harm other people. Exact same principle here, and obviously speed limits is on, so should the ban of smoking?
justification	Making the non-smokers struggle though their days just BECAUSE a smoker can't put down their addiction for an hour or two only shows how weak cigarettes really make you	it proves the point that they should be banned from public places.
justification	Second, smoking is also very harmful to other people.	People around a smoker can also smoke by second hand smoking. Also, the government spends thousands of dollars in curing people sick by smoking.
justification	We go out to eat more often 	 NOW THAT you cant smoke in public eating places.
justification	Cigarette smoking needs to be banned	 BECAUSE it affects the health of the smoker, the health of non-smoker (second-hand smoke) and, the environment. Smoking kills many.
justification	Smoking kills around 1.2 million people each year BECAUSE of smoking in China which is 2,000 people a day.	Smoking gives many illnesses like breathing problems, bad heart conditions, oral cancer, high blood pressure and much more.
justification	Smoking gives many illnesses like breathing problems, bad heart conditions, oral cancer, high blood pressure and much more.	People can get sick from second hand smoking.
justification	The reason why smoking should not be banned is 	because Smoking relaxes people.
justification	Smoking should not be banned 	The people that smoke also create jobs, and brings a huge profit to the government, which helps them build schools, hospitals, and public buildings.
justification	Banning smoking would be an exercise in way too much government control.	If Marijuana is legal, smoking shouldn't be banned because it the lesser of the two evils.
justification	There are so many people who are already addicted to smoking so banning it altogether would be a cruel thing to do to them.	Banning smoking outdoors is seldom ethically justifiable.
justification	Banning smoking outdoors is seldom ethically justifiable.	Such proposals "push the envelope" of tobacco control into areas where questions need to be asked to ensure tobacco control policies are firmly anchored to scientific evidence and ESPECIALLY concern those who value the freedom of individuals to do what they please to the extent that this does not harm others.
justification	Banning outdoor smoking is not scientifically justifiable.	Simon Chapman has argued that smoking should not be banned in outdoor public venues such as hospital patios, beaches, and outdoor sporting areas, and this might also encompass building entrances, waiting lines for cinema tickets, and outdoor cafés.
justification	Simon Chapman argues that outdoor smoking bans are seldom justified	 BECAUSE they can rarely be supported from a health standpoint, and they invite backlash from the community.
justification	We believe that outdoor smoking bans are reasonable in a number of instances and that such bans can be justified for reasons other than health.	Communities also have the right to ban nuisances --things that are generally offensive, though not necessarily harmful -- so long as fundamental individual liberties are preserved.
justification	Chapman argues that it is wrong to completely ban smoking on hospital grounds 	because doing so would force some patients to quit against their will and violate patient autonomy.
justification	Hospitals do not permit those confined to bed to walk the halls, or encourage patients on restricted diets to visit candy or soda machines.	Neither should they allow patients who smoke to do so while hospitalised.
evidence	Rates of smoking have consistently fallen in Australia SINCE increasing awareness about the dangers of smoking in the 1960s.	Further, the government has already taken several actions against the tobacco industry-currently, we have a 24c tax on each cigarette, education campaigns through school, advertising and on cigarette cartons and prohibitions on smoking in certain public areas.
