noLabel	Few scientists thought it would be possible to harness the power of nuclear energy for human purposes within the span of many decades.	Soviet nuclear research was not far behind Western scientists: Yakov Frenkel did the first theoretical work on fission in the Soviet Union in 1940, and Georgii Flerov and Lev Rusinov concluded that 3±1 neutrons were emitted per fission only days after similar conclusions had been reached by the team of Frédéric Joliot-Curie.
noLabel	 South Africa Foreign Ministry issued a statement "strongly condemning all military aggression by Israel against innocent civilians, including those in the occupied West Bank and Gaza.	" On June 3, South Africa recalled its ambassador from Israel, and the Israeli ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Ministry for a reprimand .
noLabel	The main objective of the Indian reservation system is to increase the social and educational status of the underprivileged communities, enabling them to take their rightful place in Indian society .	The reservation system exists to provide opportunities for the members of the SCs and STs so as to increase their representation in the legislature, the executive of the nation and states, the labor force, schools, colleges, and other social institutions . 
noLabel	In interest of re-establishing Swedish dominance in the Baltic Sea, Sweden allied itself against its traditional ally and benefactor, France, in the Napoleonic Wars.	Sweden's role in the Battle of Leipzig gave it the authority to force Denmark-Norway, an ally of France, to cede Norway to the King of Sweden on 14 January 1814 in exchange for northern German provinces, at the Treaty of Kiel.
noLabel	For example, a deviant act can be committed in one society or culture that breaks a social norm there, but may be considered normal for another culture and society.	Some acts of deviance may be criminal acts, but also, according to the society or culture, deviance can be strictly breaking social norms that are intact. 
noLabel	In 2003 a Supreme Court decision concerning affirmative action in universities allowed educational institutions to consider race as a factor in admitting students, but ruled that strict point systems are unconstitutional .	Opponents of racial affirmative action argue that the program actually benefits middle- and upper-class people of color at the expense of lower class European Americans and Asian Americans .
noLabel	Tobacco, both product and plant, followed the major trade routes to major ports and markets, and then on into the hinterlands.	The English language term 'smoking' was coined in the late 17th century; until then it was referred to as 'drinking smoke' . 
noLabel	Early in 1942, as president of the DPG, Ramsauer, on Felix Klein’s initiative and with the support of Ludwig Prandtl, submitted a petition to Reich Minister Bernhard Rust, at the Reichserziehungsministerium (Reich Education Ministry).	The petition, a letter and six attachments, addressed the atrocious state of physics instruction in Germany, which Ramsauer concluded was the result of politicization of education .
noLabel	The London-based Rainforest Foundation notes that "the UN figure is based on a definition of forest as being an area with as little as 10% actual tree cover, which would therefore include areas that are actually savannah-like ecosystems and badly damaged forests.	" Other critics of the FAO data point out that they do not distinguish between forest types, and that they are based largely on reporting from forestry departments of individual countries, which do not take into account unofficial activities like illegal logging . 
noLabel	Everyone shall be free to speak his mind frankly on the administration of the State and on any other subject whatsoever.	Clearly defined limitations to this right may only be imposed when particularly weighty considerations so justify in relation to the grounds for freedom of expression. 
noLabel	The University of Bologna began as a law school teaching the ius gentium or Roman law of peoples which was in demand across Europe for those defending the right of incipient nations against empire and church.	Bologna’s special claim to Alma Mater Studiorum is based on its autonomy, its awarding of degrees, and other structural arrangements, making it the oldest continuously operating institution independent of kings, emperors or any kind of direct religious authority . 
noLabel	However, the Minister of Education has responded to this criticism by giving leave to students for important holidays of their specific religions, and food menus served in secondary schools pay particular attention to ensuring that each religious observer may respect his religion's specific restrictions concerning diets.	To counter the traditional influence of Christian festivals educationalists in line with market forces have often promoted references to Santa Claus, Valentines and Halloween, particularly at primary school level. 
noLabel	Voice over Internet protocol (VOIP) vs. conventional telephony: Although conventional telephony systems are easily tapped and recorded, modern VOIP technology can employ sophisticated encryption systems to evade central monitoring systems.	As VOIP and similar technologies become more widespread they are likely to make the effective monitoring of journalists (and their contacts and activities) a very difficult task for governments. 
noLabel	Early religions attempted to regulate behavior that specifically related to health, from types of food eaten, to regulating certain indulgent behaviors, such as drinking alcohol or sexual relations.	The establishment of governments placed responsibility on leaders to develop public health policies and programs in order to gain some understanding of the causes of disease and thus ensure social stability prosperity, and maintain order. 
noLabel	Secretive decision making by company directors and corporate scandal led to freedom of information legislation to be published for the benefits of investors.	Such legislation was first adopted in Britain in the early 20th century, and later in North America and other countries .
noLabel	There have been at least five mass extinctions in the history of life on earth, and four in the last 3.5 billion years in which many species have disappeared in a relatively short period of geological time.	The massive eruptive event is considered to be one likely cause of the "Great Dying" about 250 million years ago, which is estimated to have killed 90% of species existing at the time .
noLabel	It has also been used as a term denoting "The quality of being an individual; individuality" related to possessing "An individual characteristic; a quirk.	" Individualism is thus also associated with artistic and bohemian interests and lifestyles where there is a tendency towards self creation and experimentation as opposed to tradition or popular mass opinions and behaviors as so also with humanist philosophical positions and ethics .
noLabel	Rather, it is determined by the purchasing power parity, which would look at how much local currency is needed to buy the same things that a dollar could buy in the United States .	Usually, this would translate to less local currency than the exchange rate in poorer countries as the United States is a more expensive country . 
noLabel	Unheard of these days, but common during the early 20th Century in North America, a "newspaper decision (NWS)" might be made after a no decision bout had ended.	A "no decision" bout occurred when, by law or by pre-arrangement of the fighters, if both boxers were still standing at the fight's conclusion and there was no knockout, no official decision was rendered and neither boxer was declared the winner.
noLabel	" She also believes that the decision of the United States Supreme Court in Roe v. Wade was appropriate and should not be overturned, but is opposed to the Freedom of Choice Act because it would restrict the right of states to impose restrictions on abortion.	In the past years NARAL has given her ratings of 0%, 7%, 20%, and 0%, indicating that her voting record mostly favored enacting proposed abortion restrictions . 
noLabel	While many countries have accepted some form of religious freedom, this has also often been limited in practice through punitive taxation, repressive social legislation, and political disenfranchisement.	Compare examples of individual freedom in Italy or the Muslim tradition of dhimmis, literally "protected individuals" professing an officially tolerated non-Muslim religion. 
noLabel	In 1916, the Literary Digest embarked on a national survey (partly as a circulation-raising exercise) and correctly predicted Woodrow Wilson's election as president.	Mailing out millions of postcards and simply counting the returns, the Digest correctly predicted the victories of Warren Harding in 1920, Calvin Coolidge in 1924, Herbert Hoover in 1929, and Franklin Roosevelt in 1932. 
noLabel	Evidence has been gathered suggesting that the Burmese regime has marked certain ethnic minorities such as the Karen for extermination or 'Burmisation' .	This, however, has received little attention from the international community since it has been more subtle and indirect than the mass killings in places like Rwanda . 
noLabel	Structural: this refers to the processes at the societal level which filter down and affect how the individual perceives his or her needs, i.e.	if particular social structures are inherently inadequate or there is inadequate regulation, this may change the individual's perceptions as to means and opportunities; or 
noLabel	In the 5th century BCE, the word began to indicate more deliberate and active godlessness in the sense of "severing relations with the gods" or "denying the gods".	The term ἀσεβής () then came to be applied against those who impiously denied or disrespected the local gods, even if they believed in other gods.
noLabel	In Chile, the crimes of calumny and slanderous allegation (injurias) are covered by Articles 412 to 431 of the Penal Code.	Calumny is defined as “the false imputation of a determined crime and that can lead to a public prosecution” (Article 412).
noLabel	He then discusses the design arguments, using examples such as the human body wearing out in old age as bad design.	He writes that if evolution had taken a slightly different course, there would be no guarantee at all that organisms remotely like us would ever have existed.
noLabel	Prior to the passage of the United States Constitution, several States passed their own various copyright laws between 1783 and 1787, the first State having done so being Connecticut .	Contemporary scholars and patriots such as Noah Webster, John Trumbull, and Joel Barlow were instrumental in securing the passage of these statutes .
noLabel	With the 1990 invasion of Kuwait and 1991 Gulf War, Iraq's nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons programs became a particular concern of the first Bush Administration .	Following the war, Bill Clinton and other western politicians and media continued to use the term, usually in reference to ongoing attempts to dismantle Iraq's weapons programs. 
noLabel	Some writers such as Rowan Kaiser of Joystiq argue that many of the often mentioned differences between Eastern and Western games are stereotypes that are generally not true for many games.	Kaiser makes the case by pointing to the similarities between several Western tiles (such as Lands of Lore, Betrayal at Krondor, and Dragon Age) to several Eastern titles (such as Final Fantasy and Phantasy Star), noting that these Western titles share a similar emphasis on linear storytelling, as well as, in some cases, "bright-colored" graphics .
noLabel	British subcultural theorists focused more heavily on the issue of class, where some criminal activities were seen as 'imaginary solutions' to the problem of belonging to a subordinate class.	A further study by the Chicago school looked at gangs and the influence of the interaction of gang leaders under the observation of adults. 
noLabel	The committee concluded that the slow progress could seriously impair the effectiveness of the investigations and prospects of achieving justice and accountability.	Therefore, the mechanisms that are being used by the Israeli authorities to investigate the incidents are proving inadequate to genuinely ascertain the facts and any ensuing legal responsibility". 
noLabel	Swelling is usually associated with facial hematomas (commonly called a bruise), and is traditionally reduced by applying firm pressure with a chilled enswell or an ice bag on top of the area of trauma .	Since the time between rounds is very short, cutmen try to apply the enswell right away and hold it as long as they can.
noLabel	Decades of this policy may have contributed to the fact—lamented by multiculturalists—that more than 80 percent of Americans speak only English at home.	While an estimated 60 million U.S. citizens are of German descent, forming the largest ethnic group of American citizens, barely one million of them reported speaking German in their homes in the 2000 Census.
noLabel	The second decision was to leverage the EFSF from €500bn to €1&nbsp;trillion, as a firewall to protect financial stability in other Eurozone countries with a looming debt crisis.	The leverage had previously been criticized from many sides, because it is something taxpayers ultimately risk to pay for, due to the significantly increased risks assumed by the EFSF . 
noLabel	Murder has evolved from the honour and vengeance killings of the Yakuza or Sicilian mafia which placed large physical and symbolic importance on the act of murder, its purposes and consequences, to a much less discriminate form of expressing power, enforcing criminal authority, achieving retribution or eliminating competition.	The role of the hitman has been generally consistent throughout the history of organised crime, whether that be due to the efficiency or expediency of hiring a professional assassin or the need to distance oneself from the commission of murderous acts (making it harder to prove liability).
noLabel	While overheating of a reactor can lead to, and has led to, meltdown and steam explosions, the much lower uranium enrichment makes it impossible for a nuclear reactor to explode with the same destructive power as a nuclear weapon.	It is also difficult to extract useful power from a nuclear bomb, although at least one rocket propulsion system, Project Orion, was intended to work by exploding fission bombs behind a massively padded and shielded spacecraft. 
noLabel	The European Union (EU), European Central Bank (ECB) and International Monetary Fund (IMF) agreed on 1–2 May 2010 with the Greek government to a three-year financial aid program (loan commitments) totaling €110 billion.	The Greek debt in exchange for household should be consolidated within three years, so that the budget deficit should be reduced by 2014 to below 3 percent . 
noLabel	CPA (Cost Per Action or Cost Per Acquisition) or PPF (Pay Per Performance) advertising is performance based and is common in the affiliate marketing sector of the business.	In this payment scheme, the publisher takes all the risk of running the ad, and the advertiser pays only for the amount of users who complete a transaction, such as a purchase or sign-up.
noLabel	Anti-retroviral therapy has long been unaffordable for people suffering from HIV/AIDS in developing countries, and proponents of generic antiviral drugs argue that the human need justifies the breach of patent law.	When the Thai Government Pharmaceutical Organization started producing generic antiviral drugs in March 2002 the cost of a monthly treatment for one person plummeted from $500-$750 to $30, hence making treatment more affordable.
noLabel	The National Physique Committee (NPC) was formed in 1981 by Jim Manion, who had just stepped down as chairman of the AAU Physique Committee.	The NPC has gone on to become the most successful bodybuilding organization in the U.S., and is the amateur division of the IFBB in the United States.
noLabel	Supporters of Rangel argued that by comparison with previous cases, a reprimand would be a more fitting punishment for Rangel's trangressions than censure .	Rangel repeatedly insisted, as he had all along, that nothing he had done was with the aim of enriching himself .
noLabel	Mary Agnes Welch, president of the Canadian Association of Journalists stated that Human rights commissions "were never meant to act as language nannies.	The current system allows complainants to chill the speech of those they disagree with by entangling targets in a human rights bureaucracy that doesn't have to operate under the same strict rules of defence as a court.
noLabel	Censorship laws were revoked with the founding of the Fifth Republic in 1958, although cases of censorship still occurred (in particular concerning films or satirical newspapers).	The proclamation of the state of emergency, used during the Algerian War (1954–62) and also in 2005, during the civil unrest, allows the state to legally censor news articles and other media productions (used during the Algerian War, this censorship disposition was not used in 2005). 
noLabel	The term "Republic of Letters" was coined by Pierre Bayle in 1664, in his journal Nouvelles de la Republique des Lettres.	Towards the end of the 18th century, the editor of Histoire de la République des Lettres en France, a literary survey, described the Republic of Letters as being: . 
noLabel	Flake was educated at Brigham Young University and was a Mormon missionary for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to South Africa in the early 1980s.	He worked in the public affairs sector after college and served as Executive Director of the Foundation for Democracy in Namibia and Executive Director of the Goldwater Institute before entering the House of Representatives.
noLabel	In the 19th century, the United Kingdom accorded political asylum to various persecuted people, among whom were many members of the socialist movement (including Karl Marx).	With the 1845 attempted bombing of the Greenwich Royal Observatory and the 1911 Siege of Sidney Street in the context of the propaganda of the deed anarchist actions, political asylum legislation was restricted.
noLabel	However, in cases where there is a specific request by the UN Secretary General and with the consent of the State concerned it has been willing to respond by assisting IDPs in a given instance .	In 2005 it was helping some 5.6 million IDPs (out of over 25 million), but only about 1.1 million in Africa . 
noLabel	Similar to other forms of media, video games have been the subject of argument between leading professionals and restriction and prohibition.	Often these bouts of criticism come from use of debated topics such as video game graphic violence, virtual sex, violent and gory scenes, partial or full nudity, portrayal of criminal behavior or other provocative and objectionable material. 
noLabel	In Washington, a candidate may request one hand count or machine count, provided that they pay for the estimated cost of the recount up front .	If a manual recount overturns the outcome of an election, the state will then refund the money to the candidate .
noLabel	Edwin Lyman, a senior staff scientist at the Union of Concerned Scientists, is concerned about the strength of the steel containment vessel and the concrete shield building around the AP1000 .	Arnold Gundersen, a nuclear engineer commissioned by several anti-nuclear groups, released a report which explored a hazard associated with the possible rusting through of the containment structure steel liner . 
noLabel	Its goal is to ensure "individuals and businesses should attain values from others through mutually beneficial and fully consensual trade, rather than force, fraud or deception."	Unfortunately the site itself appears to have become discounted by its users, as evidenced by the highest rated article being "Tradeleaks tampering with leak vote count mechanism". 
noLabel	According to policy conclusions of the Overseas Development Institute the voucher for coupon system can be an effective way of rationing and targeting subsidy access to maximize production and economic and social gains.	Many practical and political challenges remain in the program design and implementation required to increase efficiency, control costs, and limit patronage and fraud .
noLabel	Knight argues that the human population is far greater than the Earth can handle, and that the best thing for Earth's biosphere is for humans to voluntarily cease reproducing .	He says that humans are "incompatible with the biosphere" and that human existence is causing environmental damage which will eventually bring about the extinction of humans (as well as other organisms) .
noLabel	Mordechai Vanunu who served 18 years in prison for treason and espionage was released in 2004, but is still under restrictions on speech and movement .	A BBC reporter was barred from the country after publishing an interview with him without handing it over to the censors first . 
noLabel	During The Troubles in Northern Ireland the BBC, ITV and Channel 4 regularly stopped or postponed the broadcast of documentaries relating to Ireland.	A Real Lives documentary for the BBC, "At the Edge of the Union" was temporarily blocked in August 1985 by direct government intervention from the then Home Secretary Leon Brittan which led to a one-day strike by the National Union of Journalists to defend the independence of the BBC. 
noLabel	Many arguments were presented to the effect that smoking was harmful, and even if the critics were in the end right about many of their claims, the complaints were usually not based on scientific arguments, and if they were, these often relied on humorism and other pre-modern scientific methods.	Dr Eleazar Duncon, 1606, wrote  that tobacco "is so hurtful and dangerous to youth that it might have the pernicious nation expressed in the name, and that it were as well known by the name of Youths-bane as by the name of tobacco".
noLabel	There was a natural inclination to favour operations that were more likely to produce quick removals with a minimum of casework.	This was clearly short sighted and was recognised as such but there was at that time insufficient work done within the administrative core of IND to coordinate its processes and identify and prioritise its work to prevent such trends.
noLabel	The MSA encouraged settling states to adopt the model escrow act by providing that a settling state's allocated payment—that is, the portion of the annual MSA payment that a particular state receives in a given year—could be reduced by applying a non-participating manufacturers ("NPM") adjustment.	That adjustment lowers a state's allocated share of the annual MSA payment if the OPMs lose market share to NPMs and if "a nationally recognized firm of economic consultants" determines that the MSA was "a significant factor contributing to the Market Share Loss for the year in question."
noLabel	In 2009, POGO sent a letter to Congress criticizing the Securities and Exchange Commission for failing to implement more than half of the recommendations made to it by its Inspector General According to POGO, in the past 2 years, the SEC had taken no action on 27 out of 52 recommended reforms suggested in Inspector General reports, and still had a "pending" status on 197 of the 312 recommendations made in audit reports.	Some of these recommendations included imposing disciplinary action on SEC employees who receive improper gifts or other favors from financial companies and investigating and reporting the causes of the failures to detect the Madoff ponzi scheme . 
noLabel	This term refers to the population of boys and girls who live in conditions that cause them to be channeled into prison from birth .	The pipeline suggests that there are factors such as a lack of parental supervision, poverty, and a lack of education that makes these people helpless and unable to change their situations .
noLabel	The performances and perfect record of Texas Christian University in the 2010 season, and Boise State University in the season prior to that has also fueled the controversy surrounding the perceived inequalities that the BCS seems to perpetuate (see BCS Controversies below or in this more detailed separate article).	However, little headway has been made to institute an alternative system like a playoff tournament, given the entrenched vested economic interests in the various bowls.
noLabel	In the latter half of the 20th century there was considerable debate over whether the Second Amendment protected an individual right or a collective right .	The debate centered on whether the prefatory clause (“A well regulated militia being necessary to the security of a free State”) declared the amendment’s only purpose or merely announced a purpose to introduce the operative clause (“the right of the People to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed”). 
noLabel	National-security concerns may be the source of reverse privatization actions when the most likely providers are non-domestic or international corporations or entities.	For example, in 2001, in response to the September 11th attacks, the then-private airport security industry in the United States was nationalized and put under the authority of the Transportation Security Administration.
noLabel	In 1916 a “Traffic Index” was created from the landing and embarkation cards collected at ports and matched together at the Home Office’s Aliens Branch HQ to show whether the person had complied with their conditions of entry.	This simple process was the only mechanism for measuring the effectiveness of the control and continued until 1998 when embarkation controls were abolished. 
noLabel	The next day, attorneys for the Democratic Party and the Secretary of State argued before the Washington State Supreme Court over terms for the recount .	The Democrats argued for a universal standard to be applied to the manual recount, and for the retabulation of votes over simply recanvassing them .
noLabel	Some take the approach of looking for coherent justifications of established copyright systems, while others start with general ethical theories, such as utilitarianism and try to analyse policy through that lens.	Another approach denies the meaningfulness of any ethical justification for existing copyright law, viewing it simply as a result (and perhaps an undesirable result) of political processes. 
noLabel	A typical species becomes extinct within 10 million years of its first appearance, although some species, called living fossils, survive virtually unchanged for hundreds of millions of years.	Most extinctions have occurred naturally, prior to Homo sapiens walking on Earth: it is estimated that 99.9% of all species that have ever existed are now extinct . 
noLabel	There are many examples of Jewish resistance, most notably the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising of January 1943, when thousands of poorly armed Jewish fighters held the SS at bay for four weeks before being crushed by overwhelmingly superior forces.	According to Jewish accounts, several hundred Germans were killed, while the Germans claimed to have lost 17 dead and 93 wounded.
noLabel	There are many specialist online dating services or other internet websites, known as "adult personals" or "adult matching" sites, which cater to people looking for a purely physical relationship, without emotional attachments.	These can provide a relatively anonymous forum where people who are geographically close but in totally separate work and social circles can make contact.
noLabel	The French Ambassador to Israel told Israeli authorities that France expected them to "act with a sense of responsibility and moderation".	France indicated that it was prepared to provide consular protection to its nationals, and reiterated its position that the Gaza blockade should be lifted .
noLabel	The main funding differences between the Senate bill and the House bill are: More funds for health care in the Senate ( $153.3 vs $140 billion), for green energy programs ($74 vs. $39.4 billion), for home buyers tax credit ($35.5 vs. $2.6 billion), new payments to the elderly and a one year increase in AMT limits.	The House has more funds appropriated for education ($143 vs. $119.1 billion), infrastructure ($90.4 vs. $62 billion) and for aid to low income workers and the unemployed ($71.5 vs. $66.5 billion) .
noLabel	The political issue of SOFAs is complicated by the fact that many host countries have mixed feelings about foreign bases on their soil, and demands to renegotiate the SOFA are often combined with calls for foreign troops to leave entirely.	Issues of different national customs can arise – while the U.S. and host countries generally agree on what constitutes a crime, many U.S. observers feel that host country justice systems grant a much weaker set of protections to the accused than the U.S. and that the host country's courts can be subject to popular pressure to deliver a guilty verdict; furthermore, that American servicemembers ordered to a foreign posting should not be forced to give up the rights they are afforded under the Bill of Rights.
noLabel	Several platforms have been adopted and reiterated across many organizations in support of the empowerment of women with the specific aim of reducing poverty.	Encouraging more economic and political participation by women increases financial independence from and social investment in the government, both of which are critical to pulling society out of poverty .
noLabel	By contrast, a resident alien or foreign national may have limited rights within a jurisdiction (such as not being able to vote, and having to register with the government), but is also given the law's protection, and is usually accepted by the local population.	A naturalized citizen carries essentially the same rights and responsibilities as any other citizen (a possible exception being ineligibility for certain public offices), and is also legally protected. 
noLabel	Critique of this theory has pointed out that this theory fails to explain why some people who feel discontent fail to take action and join social movements.	Counter-arguments include that some people are prone to conflict-avoidance, short-term-oriented, and that imminent life difficulties may arise since there is no guarantee that life-improvement will result from social action .
noLabel	In mid-March 2011 the British Medical Association held an emergency meeting at which it broadly decided to emphatically oppose pending legislation in the British Parliament, the Health and Social Care Bill, that would overhaul the functioning of the National Health Service.	Dr Layla Jader, a public health physician, said: "The NHS needs evolution not revolution - these reforms are very threatening to the future of the NHS.
noLabel	In spite of the huge efforts by the U.S., drug supply and purity has reached an all time high, with the vast majority of resources spent on interdiction and law enforcement instead of public health .	In the United States, the number of nonviolent drug offenders in prison exceeds by 100,000 the total incarcerated population in the EU, despite the fact that the EU has 100 million more citizens. 
noLabel	The regulations of the Berne Convention are incorporated into the World Trade Organization's TRIPS agreement (1995), thus giving the Berne Convention effectively near-global application .	The 2002 WIPO Copyright Treaty enacted greater restrictions on the use of technology to copy works in the nations that ratified it. 
noLabel	In response to the publication of the drawings, the UK Islamist group al Ghurabaa publish an article on their website entitled, "Kill those who insult the Prophet Muhammad".	The article states, "The insulting of the Messenger Muhammad (saw) is something that the Muslims cannot and will not tolerate and the punishment in Islam for the one who does so is death.
noLabel	However, if the delinquency cause by the pipeline were to occur before the age of eighteen, the boy/girls would then become juvenile delinquents.	Keeping in mind the existence of the male phenomenon, one can safely say that the pipeline affects more boys than girls.
noLabel	At the Convention, a republic gained majority support (89 votes to 52 with 11 abstentions), but the question of what model for a republic should be put to the people at a referendum produced deep divisions among republicans.	Four republican models were debated: two involving direct election of the head of state; one involving appointment on the advice of the Prime Minister (the McGarvie Model); and one involving appointment by a two-thirds majority of Parliament (the bi-partisan appointment model). 
noLabel	An example is the rock song, "American Woman" by The Guess Who, which some Americans and even Canadians assume is an American song by an American rock band, but was written by a band of Canadian musicians.	Other examples of so-called American icons with Canadian participation include American Apparel, an American clothing store based in Los Angeles with Canadian roots, the late night TV show Saturday Night Live, and MAC Cosmetics.
noLabel	Gisha have said that their list is approximate, partial and it changes from time to time because Israeli authorities refuse to disclose information regarding the restrictions on transferring goods into Gaza.	Gisha acquires information from Palestinian traders, international organizations, and the Palestinian Coordination Committee, "all of whom "deduce" what is permitted and what is banned based on their experience requesting permission to bring goods into Gaza and the answers they receive from the Israeli authorities" . 
noLabel	Due in part to the belief in the separation of church and state, secularists tend to prefer that politicians make decisions for secular rather than religious reasons .	In this respect, policy decisions pertaining to topics like abortion, contraception, embryonic stem cell research, same-sex marriage, and sex education are prominently focused upon by American secularist organizations such as the Center for Inquiry . 
noLabel	Dr. Thomas Frieden, the Health Commissioner of New York City, wrote, "There exists no reasonable doubt that ‘metzitzah b'peh’ can and has caused neonatal herpes infection.…The Health Department recommends that infants being circumcised not undergo metzitzah b'peh.	" In May 2006, the Department of Health for New York State, issued a protocol for the performance of metzitzah b'peh .
noLabel	Confirmation about espionage work came from the VENONA project, which intercepted and decrypted Soviet intelligence reports sent during and after World War II.	These provided clues to the identity of several spies at Los Alamos and elsewhere, some of whom have never been identified.
noLabel	So important was this balance to international political stability that a treaty, the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (or ABM treaty), was signed by the U.S. and the USSR in 1972 to curtail the development of defenses against nuclear weapons and the ballistic missiles that carry them.	This doctrine resulted in a large increase in the number of nuclear weapons, as each side sought to ensure it possessed the firepower to destroy the opposition in all possible scenarios and against all perceived threats. 
noLabel	The missionaries in Latin America felt that the Indians tolerated too much nudity and required them to wear clothes if they lived at the missions.	Common Indian sexual practices such as premarital sex, adultery, polygamy, and incest were quickly deemed immoral by the missionaries and prohibited with mixed results.
noLabel	There appears to be a race/class bias which results in intelligent children not receiving the skills or opportunities needed for success or social/economic mobility, thus continuing the cycle of poverty.	There is an overall perception that American education is failing and research has done nothing to counter this statement, but instead has revealed the reality and severity of the issue of the existence of tracking and other structures that cause the cycle of poverty to continue .
noLabel	Fareed Zakaria said in February 2010: "But, in one sense, Washington is delivering to the American people exactly what they seem to want.	In poll after poll, we find that the public is generally opposed to any new taxes, but we also discover that the public will immediately punish anyone who proposes spending cuts in any middle class program which are the ones where the money is in the federal budget.
noLabel	According to a statement by Rangin Dadfar Spanta, security advisor of the Afghan government and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, the allies of Afghanistan had failed to pay necessary attention to prevent the support for international terrorism and to eliminate its hideouts and centres that can create a major threat to security and stability in the region.	"The content of these documents reveal that Afghanistan has been righteous in its stance about the rise of terrorism and political and military discrepancies in counter-terrorism struggle" .
noLabel	According to the European Council on Refugees and Exiles, a network of European refugee-assisting non-governmental organizations (NGOs), huge differences exist between national asylum systems in Europe, making the asylum system a 'lottery' for refugees.	For example, Iraqis who flee their home country and end up in Germany have an 85% chance of being recognised as a refugee and those who apply for asylum in Slovenia do not get a protection status at all .
noLabel	Rising unemployment has traditionally been regarded by the public and media in any country as a key guarantor of electoral defeat for any government which oversees it.	This was very much the consensus in the United Kingdom until 1983, when Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government won a landslide in the general election, despite overseeing a rise in unemployment from 1,500,000 to 3,200,000 since its election four years earlier .
noLabel	In his 1965 essay "Command and Compliance", which originated in his work as an expert witness for the prosecution at the Frankfurt Auschwitz Trials, the German historian Hans Buchheim wrote there was no coercion to murder Jews and others, and all who committed such actions did so out of free will .	Buchheim wrote that chances to avoid executing criminal orders "..were both more numerous and more real than those concerned are generally prepared to admit..", and that he found no evidence that SS men who refused to carry out criminal orders were sent to a concentration camps or executed .
noLabel	These are called Standard Grades, but some schools use Intermediates which take two years to complete with an exam at the end of S4.	After Standard Grades/Intermediates, some students leave to gain employment or attend further education colleges, however nowadays most students study for Highers, of which five are usually studied.
noLabel	In 1470, when the Lancastrians briefly restored Henry VI to the throne, Edward's queen was living in London with several young daughters.	She moved with them into Westminster for sanctuary, living there in royal comfort until Edward was restored to the throne in 1471 and giving birth to their first son Edward during that time.
noLabel	In 1917, a number of radicals and anarchists, including Emma Goldman, challenged the new draft law in federal court arguing that it was a direct violation of the Thirteenth Amendment's prohibition against slavery and involuntary servitude.	However the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the constitutionality of the draft act in the case of Arver v. United States on January 7, 1918.
noLabel	Guns frequently accompanied famous heroes and villains in late 20th century American films, from the outlaws of Bonnie and Clyde (1967) and The Godfather (1972), to the fictitious law and order avengers like Dirty Harry (1971) and RoboCop (1987).	In the 1970s, films portrayed fictitious and exaggerated characters, madmen ostensibly produced by the Vietnam war in films like Taxi Driver (1976) and Apocalypse Now (1979), while other films told stories of fictitious veterans who were supposedly victims of the war and in need of rehabilitation (Coming Home and The Deer Hunter, both 1978) .
noLabel	There is significant debate among economists regarding which type of stimulus has the highest "multiplier" (i.e., increase in economic activity per dollar of stimulus) .	Fiscal stimulus is enacted by laws passed by Congress, which is distinct from monetary policy conducted by central banks such as the U.S. Federal Reserve, which involves interest rates and the money supply. 
noLabel	However, in October 2008, a man was charged, but later cleared, under the Obscene Publications Act for allegedly posting fictional written material to the Internet describing kidnap, rape and murder of pop group Girls Aloud .	In late August 2005, the government announced that it plans to criminalise possession of extreme pornographic material, rather than just publication . 
noLabel	The first bill signed into law by Obama was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, relaxing the statute of limitations for equal-pay lawsuits .	Five days later, he signed the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) to cover an additional 4&nbsp;million uninsured children .
noLabel	Lending institutions need to take risks by making loans, and usually the most risky loans have the potential for making the highest return .	So-called "too big to fail" lending institutions can make risky loans that will pay handsomely if the investment turns out well but be bailed out by the taxpayer if the investment turns out badly. 
noLabel	I have nothing to say about this except I don't use steroids, and they don't have a place in this game, he said.	One White Sox player said some teammates felt nervous discussing their debate because union officials had implied that if the boycott went forward, the players association would ostracize them.
noLabel	A broadcaster in Islamic Jihad's Voice of Jerusalem radio station in Gaza City reported that IDF have been breaking into his station signal "least once an hour" during conflict intensification to broadcast messages to Gaza population that their problems were due to Hamas.	The army also dropped leaflets with similar messages and contact info to report about the whereabouts of militant leaders and weapons caches .
noLabel	Six years later, the Supreme Court, applying the Central Hudson standards in Posadas de Puerto Rico Associates v. Tourism Company of Puerto Rico, , affirmed the Supreme Court of Puerto Rico's conclusion that Puerto Rico's Games of Chance Act of 1948, including the regulations thereunder, was not facially unconstitutional.	The lax interpretation of Central Hudson adopted by Posadas was soon restricted under 44 Liquormart, Inc. v. Rhode Island, , when the Court invalidated a Rhode Island law prohibiting the publication of liquor prices.
noLabel	A Pierce County Superior Court judge ruled that ballots should not be counted, but on December 22, the Supreme Court ruled unanimously that counties explicitly have the ability to correct ballot consideration errors made during earlier counts.	Of those 732 ballots, 566 were accepted as having valid signatures and were added to the existing total on December 23.
noLabel	Also, having received 6% of the vote in British Columbia and based on past precedent, the Greens will have a stronger case for being included in the debates in future elections.	The Bloc Québécois was allowed to participate in debates on the basis of its support in Quebec – even before it had elected any MPs in a general election (the only Bloc MPs at the time had either switched parties or won in by-elections).
noLabel	Growing criminal activity in Mexico, particularly in communities across the Southwest border, has raised concerns that the violence might spill over to the United States.	Since 2006, United States Department of Justice’s annual National Drug Threat Assessment has reported Mexican DTOs and criminal groups are the most influential drug traffickers and the greatest organizational threat to the United States . 
noLabel	In the 2012 election, 70% of black North Carolinians took advantage of early voting; 45% of votes cast by voters using same-day registration were African American.	The North Carolina NAACP and the Advancement Project filed suit against the state the same day the law went into effect.This is a modern day poll tax, a deliberate attempt to curtail the tremendous advances that the state has made in increasing voter participation for all North Carolinians.Here's where conservative conspiracy theorists step in: raising a great hue and cry about the urgent need to curtail voting fraud.
noLabel	ElBaradei said Iran's failure to report the existence of a new fuel enrichment facility until September 2009 was inconsistent with its obligations under the Subsidiary Arrangements to its Safeguards Agreement.	ElBaradei closed by saying international negotiations represented a "unique opportunity to address a humanitarian need and create space for negotiations" . 
noLabel	Another potential geopolitical issue which is considered particularly worrisome by miliitary analysts is a possible conflict between the United States and the People's Republic of China over Taiwan.	Although economic forces are thought to have decreased somewhat the possibility of a military conflict, there remains the worry that the increasing military buildup of (China is rapidly increasing their naval capacity, and that any move toward Taiwan independence could potentially spin out of control. 
noLabel	In late June 2008, McCain said he favored nationwide limits on carbon emissions from cars, saying "my goal would be to see a federal standard that every state could embrace" .	In mid-July, McCain, regarding whether states such as California should be permitted to set tough greenhouse gas limits on vehicles, that "It's hard for me to tell states that they can't impose .. whatever standards that would apply within their own states.
noLabel	The tower blocks, many of which were located on the periphery of the city, made residents feel isolated and cut off from society .	Outsiders and newcomers were also affected; they felt the overbearing design of the tower blocks made them fearsome and unsociable . 
noLabel	The Gaza Freedom Flotilla, organized by the Free Gaza Movement and the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief (İHH), was carrying humanitarian aid and construction materials, with the intention of breaking the Israeli-Egyptian blockade of the Gaza Strip .	Israel questioned the humanitarian motives of flotilla organizers, saying it had invited the organizers to use the land crossings but they had refused . 
noLabel	Political scientists John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt wrote an article critical of the Israel lobby in the United States, in which they asserted that the Israel lobby uses accusations of anti-Semitism as a part of a deliberate strategy to suppress criticism of Israel.	Mearsheimer and Walt themselves were accused of anti-Semitism as a result of that article and the book they wrote based on the article . 
noLabel	Forward reporter Nathan Guttman writes that Silverstein "has become a prime address for Israelis seeking to bypass their country’s censorship or court gag orders..	Some praise his work as a courageous effort to tear down walls of secrecy surrounding Israel’s security agencies" while "others accuse him of recklessness motivated by a drive to blemish Israel at all costs."
noLabel	Paul additionally argues that government contributes to rising healthcare costs through yet other ways, such as through government regulations, one example being restrictions imposed by the Food and Drug Administration on the manufacture and sale of medications and dietary supplements, and through licensing of physicians and other healthcare practitioners, which Paul says interferes with market-based competition for healthcare services.	He also criticizes the legal system's approach to the handling of medical malpractice claims, which he says needlessly inflates the cost of healthcare further still .
noLabel	Within these statistics, Japanese committed 6,925 violent crimes, of which 2,531 were arson or rape, while foreigners committed 323 violent crimes, but only 42 cases are classified as arson or rape.	Foreigners were more likely to commit crimes in groups: About 61.5% of crimes committed by foreigners had one or more accomplice, while only 18.6% of crimes committed by Japanese were in groups. 
noLabel	The difficulties with implosion centered on the problem of making the chemical explosives deliver a perfectly uniform shock wave upon the plutonium sphere&mdash; if it were even slightly asymmetric, the weapon would fizzle (which would be expensive, messy, and not a very effective military device).	This problem was circumvented by the use of hydrodynamic "lenses"&mdash;explosive materials of differing densities&mdash;which would focus the blast waves inside the imploding sphere, akin to the way in which an optical lens focuses light rays. 
noLabel	Most such theories focus on American and European societal condition, since inequality between whites and non-whites is a long-standing feature of these academic areas.	White privilege differs from conditions of overt racism or prejudice, in which a dominant group actively seeks to oppress or suppress other racial groups for its own advantage.
noLabel	The phrase "[A] hedge or wall of separation between the garden of the church and the wilderness of the world" was first used by Baptist theologian Roger Williams, the founder of the colony of Rhode Island, in his 1644 book The Bloody Tenent of Persecution .	The phrase was later used by Thomas Jefferson as a description of the First Amendment and its restriction on the legislative branch of the federal government, in an 1802 letter to the Danbury Baptists (a religious minority concerned about the dominant position of the Congregationalist church in Connecticut): . 
noLabel	In the decades after World War I, there remained social and legal obstacles to condom use throughout the U.S. and Europe .	Founder of psychoanalysis Sigmund Freud opposed all methods of birth control on the grounds that their failure rates were too high.
noLabel	A campaign labelled "Panties for Peace" began on 16 October; focussing on the superstitions of Burma’s generals, particularly junta chief Than Shwe, that views contact with any item of women’s wear as depriving them of their power, women throughout the world have been sending packages to Burmese embassies containing panties; the campaign has spread to Australia, Europe, Singapore and Thailand.	People in Burma also began to hang pictures of Than Shwe around the necks stray dogs, as it is a very strong insult in Burmese tradition to be associated with a dog, and began to spray anti-junta graffiti in bus and train stations, with slogans such as "killer Than Shwe" . 
noLabel	Runoff voting is intended as a method that reduces tactical voting, but two tactics called 'compromising' and 'push-over' are still possible in many circumstances.	In particular voters are strongly encouraged to 'compromise' by voting for one of the three leading candidates in the first round of an election. 
noLabel	She upheld the doctrine, but ruled that the government's public statements concerning the operation were admissible and constituted sufficient proof for the case to continue without any privileged evidence or discovery.	On July 6, 2007, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals threw out Taylor's decision, ruling 2-1 that the ACLU could not produce evidence to prove that the ACLU had been wrongfully wiretapped by the NSA, and therefore did not have the standing to bring such a case to court, regardless of the legality question.
noLabel	The dialects spoken in Scania, the southernmost part of the country, are influenced by Danish because the region traditionally was a part of Denmark and is nowadays situated closely to it.	Sweden Finns are Sweden's largest linguistic minority, comprising about 5% of Sweden's population, and Finnish is recognized as a minority language . 
noLabel	The term reforestation is similar to afforestation, the process of restoring and recreating areas of woodlands or forests that may have existed long ago but were deforested or otherwise removed at some point in the past.	Sometimes the term re-afforestation is used to distinguish between the original forest cover and the later re-growth of forest to an area.
noLabel	Palestine was the only location to which any Nazi relocation plan succeeded in producing significant results, by means of an agreement begun in 1933 between the Zionist Federation of Germany (die Zionistische Vereinigung für Deutschland) and the Nazi government, the Haavara Agreement.	This agreement resulted in the transfer of about 60,000 German Jews and $100 million from Germany to Palestine, up until the outbreak of World War II .
noLabel	Even before the "Flight to Varennes", the Assembly members had determined to debar themselves from the legislature that would succeed them, the Legislative Assembly.	They now gathered the various constitutional laws they had passed into a single constitution, showed remarkable strength in choosing not to use this as an occasion for major revisions, and submitted it to the recently restored Louis XVI, who accepted it, writing "I engage to maintain it at home, to defend it from all attacks from abroad, and to cause its execution by all the means it places at my disposal".
noLabel	Critics point out that several religions were founded by individuals who appeared to be using the religion for immoral or corrupt purposes, such as financial gain, access to power, or justifying multiple wives.	Examples given by critics include Indian mystic Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh who owned 90 Rolls Royce cars, cult leader David Koresh, and Mormon leaders Joseph Smith who had about 27 wives and Brigham Young who had about 57 wives .
noLabel	The 2004 white paper “One Step Ahead - A 21st Century Strategy to Defeat Organised Crime” set out, among other things the role and responsibilities of the new Serious Organised Crime Agency in tackling organised crime.	The paper made it clear that it was intended that the various agencies already working together on these issues would do so ever more closely but that there was no need to create a new border agency. 
noLabel	By the late 1960s change was coming: as operating systems and programming language compilers evolved, software production costs were dramatically increasing.	A growing software industry was competing with the hardware manufacturers' bundled software products (the cost of bundled products was included in the hardware cost), leased machines required software support while providing no revenue for software, and some customers able to better meet their own needs did not want the costs of manufacturer's software to be bundled with hardware product costs.
noLabel	The issue of violent crime, especially rape and murder, committed by U.S. servicemembers on Japanese citizens in Okinawa has often strained relations between the U.S., Japan, and the local Okinawan government.	The U.S. has argued that "extraterritoriality" or "extrality" (meaning the right of a foreigner charged with a crime to be turned over for trial to his own diplomatic representatives in accordance with his national law) granted its military members under the SOFA is necessary to afford them the same rights that exist under the U.S. criminal justice system.
noLabel	The government's experiments in the 1960s and 70s to use high-rise apartments as a means of providing the housing solution for the poor resulted in a spectacular failure.	All but a few high-rise housing projects in the nation's largest cities, such as Cabrini–Green and Robert Taylor Homes in Chicago, Penn South in New York and the Desire projects in New Orleans, fell victim to the "ghettofication" and are now being torn down, renovated, or replaced. 
noLabel	That world no longer exists and we can't afford to have an education system that was essentially set in the 19th century.	"Gove gave the example of successful education systems in east Asia that demanded higher standards of their students and had longer school days and shorter holidays.
noLabel	Since the 1950s, many nations in Africa have suffered civil wars and ethnic strife, thus generating a massive number of refugees of many different nationalities and ethnic groups.	The division of Africa into European colonies in 1885, along which lines the newly independent nations of the 1950s and 1960s drew their borders, has been cited as a major reason why Africa has been so plagued with intrastate warfare.
noLabel	Commentators have suggested that the state secrets privilege might be used as often to prevent disclosure of embarrassing facts as to protect legitimate secrets .	Or, in the words of Professors William G. Weaver and Robert M. Pallitto in an article in the Political Science Quarterly:
noLabel	After the Talmudic period, Jewish views on abortion become more refined, and diverse, as rabbinic literature expanded and Jewish philosophy developed.	Maimonides, notably, justified the requirement to abort a pregnancy that threatens the woman's life not because the fetus is less than a nefesh (human being), as the Talmud held, but rather through the principle of the rodef or pursuer, "pursuing her to kill her."
noLabel	With this perspective, crime prevention or reduction measures can be devised that increase effort required to commit the crime, such as target hardening .	Rational choice theories also suggest that increasing risk of offending and likelihood of being caught, through added surveillance, police or security guard presence, added street lighting, and other measures, are effective in reducing crime . 
noLabel	In January 2008, Paul released an  and named Peter Schiff and Donald L. Luskin as economic advisors to his campaign .	National Journal labeled Paul's overall economic policies in 2010 as more conservative than 78% of the House and more liberal than 22% of the House (85% and 15%, respectively for 2009) .
noLabel	On November 1, 1952, the Teller–Ulam configuration was tested at full scale in the "Ivy Mike" shot at an island in the Enewetak Atoll, with a yield of 10.4 megatons (over 450 times more powerful than the bomb dropped on Nagasaki during World War II).	The device, dubbed the Sausage, used an extra-large fission bomb as a "trigger" and liquid deuterium—kept in its liquid state by 20 short tons (18 metric tons) of cryogenic equipment—as its fusion fuel, and weighed around 80 short tons (70 metric tons) altogether. 
noLabel	Usually, there is nothing left to do there, although some locations change throughout the story and offer the player new things to do in response.	Players must acquire enough power to overcome a major challenge in order to progress to the next area, and this structure can be compared to the boss characters at the end of levels in action games . 
noLabel	After German reunification, on 26 August 1993 the records were opened and the evidence was there that the Stasi, the state secret police, supervised systematic doping of East German athletes from 1971 until reunification in 1990.	Doping existed in other countries, says the expert Jean-Pierre de Mondenard, both communist and capitalist, but the difference with East Germany was that it was a state policy . 
noLabel	Historian Rainer Karlsch has asserted that shortly before the end of the war US intelligence acquired information to the effect that Japanese scientists had planned to conduct a test of a nuclear weapon near Hungnam on 12 August 1945.	However, this could not be verified as the Red Army occupied Konan a few days later, before US occupation authorities could investigate fully .
noLabel	In June 2009, Sony announced that it would release its PSP Go for 249.99USD on October 1 in Europe and North America, and Japan on November 1.	The PSP Go was a newer, slimmer version of the PSP, which had the control pad slide from the base, where its screen covers most of the front side .
noLabel	The doctrine of human rights in international practice, within international law, global and regional institutions, in the policies of states and in the activities of non-governmental organizations, has been a cornerstone of public policy around the world.	In The idea of human rights it says: "if the public discourse of peacetime global society can be said to have a common moral language, it is that of human rights."
noLabel	In 2004, the National Bureau of Economic Research found data that suggested Charter Schools increase competition in a given jurisdiction, thus improving the quality of traditional public schools (noncharters) in the area.	Using end-of-year test scores for grades three through eight from North Carolina's state testing program, researchers found that charter school competition raised the composite test scores in district schools, even though the students leaving district schools for the charters tended to have above average test scores.
noLabel	The government is also working to relocate people who live in dry regions to places where they can find fertile land for farming, so that they would be able to support themselves without any assistance from the government.	With the fund provided by E.C grant (around 2.3 million Euros) people were trained to protect the land from erosion and taught to use water for irrigation, which improved quality of life and the environment.
noLabel	There were little or no IS resources dedicated to dealing with in-country immigration offenders before 1973 and the detection of potential deportees was seen as a matter for the police.	The enforcement arm developed slowly in the 1980s and 1990s but, in the 2000s, underwent a transformation in terms of its remit, training and powers and, by 2006, removed more in-country offenders than were refused entry at UK ports for the first time. 
noLabel	Beginning in late 2009, fears of a sovereign debt crisis developed among investors concerning Greece's ability to meet its debt obligations due to strong increase in government debt levels .	This led to a crisis of confidence, indicated by a widening of bond yield spreads and the cost of risk insurance on credit default swaps compared to the other countries in the Eurozone, most importantly Germany .
noLabel	The IAEA serves as an intergovernmental forum for scientific and technical cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear technology and nuclear power worldwide.	The programs of the IAEA encourage the development of the peaceful applications of nuclear technology, provide international safeguards against misuse of nuclear technology and nuclear materials, and promote nuclear safety (including radiation protection) and nuclear security standards and their implementation. 
noLabel	Installation and service / maintenance of off-shore wind farms are a specific challenge for technology and economic operation of a wind farm.	Service vessels have to be operated nearly 24/7 (availability higher than 80 % of time) to get suffcient amortisation from the wind turbines.
noLabel	The historian Geoffrey Blainey, however, writes that women were in fact more prominent in the life of the Church during the Middle Ages than at any previous time in its history, with a number of church reforms initiated by women.	The Belgian nun, St Juliana of Liège (1193–1252), proposed the Feast of Corpus Christi, celebrating the body of Christ in the Eucharist, which became a major feast throughout the Church.
noLabel	In addition, according to the former chief financial officer of Trident (a company that is client of Copeland Lowery), the owner of Trident (Nicholas Karangelen) had an arrangement with White where she would get a bonus based on the company's profitability.	The former executive said she and two other company officials were fired after they questioned the company's financial relationship with White . 
noLabel	In Costa Rica the Universidad de Costa Rica, the Universidad Nacional, the Universidad Estatal a Distancia, Universidad Técnica Nacional and the Instituto Tecnológico de Costa Rica, all public universities, are among the nations most prestigious institutions.	Nevertheless, the UN-sponsored University for Peace and the INCAE Business School (with campuses in Nicaragua and Costa Rica), are also notable.
noLabel	Migration is in many developing countries a coping strategy to mitigate poverty and is already happening independent of the effects of climate change and environmental degradation.	It is a selective process and the poorest and most vulnerable people are often excluded as they will find it almost impossible to move due to a lack of necessary funds or social support .
noLabel	The scientists found that the peak ratio of male proportion precedes the period of industrialization or the introduction of pesticides or hormonal drugs, rendering a causal association between environmental chemicals and human sex ratio at birth unlikely.	Moreover, these scientists claim that the trends they found in Finland are similar to those observed in other countries with worse pollution and much greater pesticide use.
noLabel	A 1994 report by the Surgeon General, "Preventing Tobacco Use Among Young People," asserted: “When young people no longer want to smoke the epidemic itself will die.”  A critical task of public health was counteracting the “indoctrination” of the young when they were most susceptible.	Hence the report dismissed as “misguided” the debate as to whether cigarette promotion “caused” young people to smoke; the conclusion was that “Whether causal or not, [promotion] fosters the uptake of smoking, initiating for many a dismal and relentless chain of events” . 
noLabel	The liberal regime is based on the notion of market dominance and private provision; ideally, the state only interferes to ameliorate poverty and provide for basic needs, largely on a means-tested basis.	Hence, the decommodification potential of state benefits is assumed to be low and social stratification high (Ferragina and Seeleib-Kaiser 2011) . 
noLabel	Under section 23 of the Equality Act, in order to show that there has been discrimination, the claimant must show that there is no material difference between the claimant and the other person, or "comparator", who does not share the same protected characteristic.	If the respondent can show that there is another cause for the different treatment, not related to the protected characteristic, then the claim will fail.
noLabel	Early 20th-century President Theodore Roosevelt declared, "The most ultimately righteous of all wars is a war with savages" and openly spoke of cementing the rule of "dominant world races.	" In line with the concepts of the "Manifest Destiny" of white Anglo-Americans to conquer lands inhabited by "inferior" races of Native Americans and Mexicans, and the "White Man's Burden" of Europeans' obligation to introduce civilization to the "primitive" people of Africa, Asia and the Pacific, American foreign policy in the early 20th century had racial overtones of a "superior" race destined to rule the world. 
noLabel	March 1 has been noted as "the bloodiest day for Palestinians" since the Second intifada began in 2000, when almost half the dead were civilians including children .	Israeli human rights movement B'Tselem expressed its grave concern at "the large number of children and other uninvolved (Palestinian) civilians among those killed and wounded in the Gaza Strip" . 
noLabel	Raising farm incomes is described as the core of the antipoverty effort as three quarters of the poor today are farmers .	Estimates show that growth in the agricultural productivity of small farmers is, on average, at least twice as effective in benefiting the poorest half of a country’s population as growth generated in nonagricultural sectors .
noLabel	In addition, many African migrants en route to Israel face torture, organ theft, rape and assault by traffickers in the Sinai who hold them for weeks, sometimes months, to demand more money.	A survey of 284 migrants published in late February 2011 found that over half told of abuse by the smugglers that included being burnt, branded, hung by the hands or feet and raped . 
noLabel	Many academies and free schools offer extended opening hours, and we want more schools to take up these freedoms," the DfE said.Kirby, who left No 10 nearly a year ago to return to KPMG as a partner, said the move would be popular with teachers and give pupils time to catch up with their international competitors.	"In simple terms what we are doing is giving kids the equivalent of an extra seven years of compulsory education between the ages of five and 16 and giving teachers almost no time constraints," he wrote. 
noLabel	Public protests shook Italy during 1969, with the autonomist student movement particularly active, leading to the occupation of the Fiat automobile factory in Milan.	Mario Capanna of the New Left movement, was prominent at the time, along with members of Potere Operaio and Autonomia Operaia (Antonio Negri, Oreste Scalzone, Franco Piperno), and Lotta Continua (Adriano Sofri).
noLabel	The term ethnocentrism was coined by William G. Sumner, upon observing the tendency for people to differentiate between the ingroup and others.	He defined it as "the technical name for the view of things in which one's own group is the center of everything, and all others are scaled and rated with reference to it.
noLabel	On March 17, 2007, North Korea told delegates at international nuclear talks that it is preparing to shut down its main nuclear facility.	The agreement was reached following a series of six-party talks, involving North Korea, South Korea, China, Russia, Japan and the U.S begun in 2003.
noLabel	The United States nuclear program has, since its inception, suffered from a number of accidents of varying forms, ranging from single-casualty research experiments (such as that of Louis Slotin during the Manhattan Project), to the nuclear fallout dispersion of the Castle Bravo shot in 1954, to the accidental dropping of nuclear weapons from aircraft ("broken arrows").	How close any of these accidents came to being "major" nuclear disasters is a matter of technical and scholarly debate and interpretation. 
noLabel	Most biologists agree however that the period since human emergence is part of a new mass extinction, named the Holocene extinction event, caused primarily by the impact humans are having on the environment .	It has been argued that the present rate of extinction is sufficient to eliminate most species on the planet Earth within 100 years . 
noLabel	Energy policy is the manner in which a given entity (often governmental) has decided to address issues of energy development including energy production, distribution and consumption.	The attributes of energy policy may include legislation, international treaties, incentives to investment, guidelines for energy conservation, taxation and other public policy techniques.
noLabel	Women's golf does not have as high a profile as the men's game, but British players, most notably Laura Davies, have found success on both the Europe-wide Ladies European Tour and the overwhelmingly dominant women's tour, the LPGA Tour in the U.S.	The Women's British Open is the only event recognised as a major by both the Ladies European Tour and the U.S. LPGA.
noLabel	Similarly, in approval voting, unlike many other systems, strategy almost never involves ranking a less-preferred candidate over a more-preferred one .	However, strategy is in fact inevitable when a voter decides their "approval cutoff"; this is a variation of the compromising strategy.
noLabel	Proponents of other single-winner voting systems argue that their proposals would reduce the need for tactical voting and reduce the spoiler effect.	Examples include the commonly used two-round system of runoffs and instant runoff voting, along with less tested systems such as approval voting and Condorcet methods.
noLabel	French scientist Étienne-Émile Baulieu coined the word in 1985 because he felt that there was a need for a technical term to describe the prevention of implantation, which did not fit the traditional definitions of either contraception or abortion .	Since 18 U.S. states define pregnancy as beginning at conception, describing methods of birth control in terms of their potential means of action allows one to be technically accurate while using language that is neutral with regard to the abortifacient versus contraceptive controversy. 
noLabel	In December 2010, Flake was one of fifteen Republican House members to vote in favor of repealing the United States military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" ban on openly gay service members .	Flake had voted to amend the U.S. Constitution to ban same-sex marriage with a Federal Marriage Amendment in 2004 and 2006 . 
noLabel	At Hiroshima, severe structural damage to buildings extended about in radius from ground zero, making a circle of destruction in diameter.	The blast sent out a hyper-intensified shock wave which travelled at (slightly above) the speed of sound, turning buildings into shrapnel.
noLabel	that 'circumcision ablates [removes] the most sensitive part of the penis' by excluding that part from consideration.. That the foreskin itself has a sexual function was well-known for centuries before secular circumcision became widespread.	What would need to be proved rigorously is that cutting a significant part of the distal penis off does not diminish sexual pleasure."
noLabel	For these reasons, stockpiles of tactical nuclear warheads in most countries' arsenals have been dramatically reduced c. 2010, and the smallest types have been completely eliminated .	Additionally, the increased sophistication of "Category F" PAL mechanisms and their associated communications infrastructure mean that centralised control of tactical nuclear warheads (by the country's most senior political leaders) can now be retained, even during combat. 
noLabel	It should also be noted that most individuals show variation in both their ideal and chosen acculturation strategies across different domains of their lives.	For example, among immigrants, it is often easier and more desired to acculturate to their host society's attitudes towards politics and government, than it is to acculturate to new attitudes about religion, principles, and values .
noLabel	Knight sees abstinence from reproduction as an altruistic choice&nbsp;– a way to prevent involuntary human suffering&nbsp;– and cites the deaths of children from preventable causes as an example of needless suffering .	Knight claims that non-reproduction would eventually allow humans to lead idyllic lifestyles in an environment comparable to the Garden of Eden, and maintains that the last remaining humans would be proud of their accomplishment.
noLabel	The latter work contains the famous parable of the three rings, in which three sons represent the three Abrahamic religions, Christianity, Judaism, and Islam.	Each son believes he has the one true ring passed down by their father, but judgment on which is correct is reserved to God .
noLabel	While TCU got a few first place votes, this effort did not change the outcome of the AP poll, with TCU ending up the season in the #2 spot in all of the major polls and the BCS rankings.	As Utah did, TCU will soon join a conference with an automatic BCS tie in when they join the Big 12 Conference beginning with the 2012 season. 
noLabel	A virtuous plebeian who cultivates his qualities can be a "gentleman", while a shameless son of the king is only a "small man".	That he admitted students of different classes as disciples is a clear demonstration that he fought against the feudal structures that defined pre-imperial Chinese society. 
noLabel	IDPs are civilians who have been forced to flee their homes, but who have not reached a neighboring country and therefore, unlike refugees, are not protected by international law and may find it hard to receive any form of assistance.	As the nature of war has changed in the last few decades, with more and more internal conflicts replacing interstate wars, the number of IDPs has increased significantly to an estimated 5 million people worldwide. 
noLabel	My lawyers have advised me that I cannot answer these questions without jeopardizing my friends, my family, or myself, Mr. McGwire said in his opening statement, choking up and appearing close to tears, before a House committee investigating steroid use in baseball.	Sammy Sosa, whose home run duel with Mr. McGwire in 1998 is often credited with restoring fan interest in major league baseball after a season-ending strike in the mid-90's, flatly denied using steroids.
noLabel	Indeed, on 4 June 2007, a person was able to place a small ad in a newspaper in southwest China to commemorate the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square protests reading "Paying tribute to the strong(-willed) mothers of 4 June victims".	The accepting clerk claimed that he was ignorant of the event and believed that 4 June was the date of a mining disaster .
noLabel	The pressure for decent housing was increased by overcrowding in the large cities during the Industrial Revolution of the 19th century; many social commentators (such as Octavia Hill) reported on the squalor, sickness and immorality that arose.	Some philanthropists had begun to provide housing in tenement blocks, while some factory owners built entire villages for their workers, such as Saltaire (1853), Bournville (1879), Port Sunlight (1888), Stewartby, and Silver End as late as 1925.
noLabel	Major anti-nuclear groups include Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Friends of the Earth, Greenpeace, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, and the Nuclear Information and Resource Service.	The initial objective of the movement was nuclear disarmament, though the focus has shifted to include opposition to the use of nuclear power. 
noLabel	Wright and Shockley spoke with Colonels James McCormack and Dean Rusk, and examined casualty forecasts by Michael DeBakey and Gilbert Beebe.	Wright and Shockley estimated the invading Allies would suffer between 1.7 and 4&nbsp;million casualties in such a scenario, of whom between 400,000 and 800,000 would be dead, while Japanese casualties would have been around 5 to 10 million. 
noLabel	Therefore, as long as there is at least one publicly accessible uncensored system, it will often be possible to gain access to otherwise censored material.	However circumvention may not be possible by non tech-savvy users, so blocking and filtering remain effective means of censoring the Internet access of large numbers of users . 
noLabel	The theory is said to assume many aspects of how the universe came to be without scientific analysis, rather a monotheistic religious outlook.	Most scientists argue that "God" is not a scientifically proven cause, considering current acceptable evidence does not verify a deity’s existence. 
noLabel	After the first round, Lenihan had the largest share of the first choice rankings (and hence would have won a first-past-the-post vote), but no candidate attained the necessary majority.	Currie was eliminated and his votes reassigned to the next choice ranked on each ballot; in this process, Robinson received 82% of Currie's votes, thereby overtaking Lenihan.
noLabel	The report describes motivations for its preparation, including health effects of steroids, legal issues, fair play, and reports that baseball players acted as role models for child athletes.	For example, after news coverage in August 1998 that Mark McGwire had used the then-legal androstenedione, a steroid precursor, sales of the supplement increased over 1000%, and the National Institute on Drug Abuse reported that 8% of male high school senior athletes had used androstenedione in 2001. 
noLabel	They should be thick enough to protect cigars, and the inside should not have a strong leather smell that could affect the cigar's taste.	Some of these cases come with either cardboard or metal tubes that add protection and prevent the cigar from becoming permeated with the leather.
noLabel	States have argued the clarity of this law and many have enacted their own laws allowing in-state tuition to be given on the claims that it’s based on high school attendance and not explicitly residency .	This law is especially important since unauthorized immigrants are also unable to obtain governmental financial aid and are unable to legally work, leaving them without sources to help pay for out-of-state tuition . 
noLabel	Issues surrounding the Roman Catholic Church and AIDS have become highly controversial in the past twenty years, primarily because many prominent religious leaders have publicly declared their opposition to the use of condoms as a disease preventative.	Other issues involve religious participation in global health care services and collaboration with secular organizations such as UNAIDS and the World Health Organization. 
noLabel	She notes that this theory predicts that, if residential areas were more racially integrated, intraracial crime would decrease and interracial crime would increase correspondingly.	However, she also notes that not all researchers on the topic of intraracial crime agree with this result, with some pointing to other macrostructural factors, such as income and education, which may negate the effect of race on inter- and intraracial crime . 
noLabel	Debt held by the public is important because it reflects the extent to which the government goes into private credit markets to borrow.	Such borrowing draws on private national saving and international saving, and therefore competes with investment in the nongovernmental sector (for factories and equipment, research and development, housing, and so forth).
noLabel	Historically, there have been differences in systems of succession, mainly revolving around the question of whether succession is limited only to males, or if females are also eligible to succeed.	Agnatic succession refers to systems where females are neither allowed to succeed nor to transmit the succession rights to their male descendants (see Salic Law).
noLabel	This was followed by an announcement of the ECB on 3 May that it will still accept as collateral all outstanding and new debt instruments issued or guaranteed by the Greek government, regardless of the nation's credit rating, in order to maintain banks' liquidity .	The new austerity package was met with great anger by the Greek public, leading to massive protests, riots and social unrest throughout Greece.
noLabel	In case of unauthorized release of classified information, competent authorities are the Ministry of Interior, the Haut fonctionnaire de défense et de sécurité ("high civil servant for defence and security") of the relevant ministry, and the General secretary for National Defence.	Violation of such secrets is an offence punishable with 7 years of imprisonment and a 100&nbsp;000 Euro fine; if the offence is committed by imprudence or negligence, the penalties are 3 years of imprisonment and a 45&nbsp;000 Euro fine.
noLabel	A positive growth ratio (or rate) indicates that the population is increasing, while a negative growth ratio indicates the population is decreasing.	A growth ratio of zero indicates that there were the same number of people at the two times -- net difference between births, deaths a growth rate may be zero even when there are significant changes in the birth rates, death rates, immigration rates, and age distribution between the two times. 
noLabel	The rate for the United States is 52.1 per 1000, the highest in the developed world – and about four times the European Union average .	The teenage pregnancy rates between countries must take into account the level of general sex education available and access to contraceptive options.
noLabel	Daniel C. Peterson, a professor of Islamic Studies and Arabic at BYU, attacked the accuracy of Hitchens' claims in a lengthy essay, concluding, "The book..is crammed to the bursting point with errors, and the striking thing about this is that the errors are always, always, in Hitchens's favor..	There is not a disputed fact or a fact that struck me as questionable that I've checked in Hitchens's book where it has not turned out that he's wrong.
noLabel	McCain said: "I want to make sure that we have incentives for people to remain in the military, as well as for people to join the military.	I've talked a lot about veterans' health care, so we'll continue to talk about those issues and how to care for vets.
noLabel	The timeline of this case, called "Baytown Crew", shows guns were allowed to walk during surveillance that began June 7, 2010.	On August 20, 2010 Barba received a rifle later recovered in the Zapata ambush and sent it with nine others to Mexico.
noLabel	After 1989, it practically vanished from the school life - it is currently an exclusive subject (called wychowanie do życia w rodzinie/family life education rather than edukacja seksualna/sex education) in several schools their parents must give consent to the headmasters so their children may attend.	It has much due to the strong objection against sex education of the Catholic Church; the most influential institution in Poland . 
noLabel	At subsequent gatherings in Washington, D.C., Detroit, Philadelphia, Los Angeles, Miami, Chicago, and Portland a pattern of behavior that stifles First Amendment rights has emerged" .	In a subsequent lawsuit, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit found that "It was lawful for the city of Seattle to deem part of downtown off-limits..
noLabel	More than one-third of the deaths were from problems associated with pregnancy or childbirth, but the majority (64%) were from complications from unsafe or unsanitary abortion .	Most of the deaths occurred in less developed parts of the world, where family planning and reproductive health services were less available . 
noLabel	 Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in community with others and in public or private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship and observanceEven though not formally legally binding, the Declaration has been adopted in or influenced many national constitutions since 1948.	It also serves as the foundation for a growing number of international treaties and national laws and international, regional, national and sub-national institutions protecting and promoting human rights including the freedom of religion. 
noLabel	In addition to evolutionary development of mental and physical traits, Darwin and other evolutionary theorists emphasize the influence of the types of environment upon behaviour .	First of all there are ancestral environments that are typically long-term and stable forms of situations that influence mental development of individuals or groups gained either biologically through birth or learned from family or relatives, that cause the emphasis of certain mental behaviours that are developed due to their necessity the ancestral environment .
noLabel	Starting in 2008 and extending until 2012, the tax rate on qualified dividends and long term capital gains for the lowest two tax brackets (10% and 15%) will be 0%.	The following table shows each marginal income tax rate for 2001 through 2003, adjusted for inflation, which shows the before and after results of the EGTRRA and the JGTRRA. 
noLabel	Clearcutting, or clearfelling, is a controversial forestry/logging practice in which most or all trees in an area are uniformly cut down.	Clearcutting, along with shelterwood and seed tree harvests, is used by foresters to create certain types of forest ecosystems and to promote select species that require an abundance of sunlight or grow in large, even-age stands .
noLabel	Research has been done into the possibility of pure fusion bombs: nuclear weapons that consisted of fusion reactions without requiring a fission bomb to initiate them.	Such a weapon would potentially prove to be a simpler path to thermonuclear weapons than one requiring the development of fission weapons first, and pure fusion weapons would create significantly less nuclear fallout than other thermonuclear weapons, as they would not disperse fission products.
noLabel	The Government would have needed legislation to impose a new academic calendar on education authorities, and ministers were concerned that the teaching unions might campaign against curtailment of the summer holiday.	Margaret Hodge, a junior minister in Mr Blunkett's department, said last year that the traditional three-term pattern was no longer suitable for a modern society.
noLabel	Internally, popular sentiments radicalized the Revolution significantly, culminating in the rise of Maximilien Robespierre and the Jacobins and virtual dictatorship by the Committee of Public Safety during the Reign of Terror from 1793 until 1794 during which between 16,000 and 40,000 people were killed .	After the fall of the Jacobins and the execution of Robespierre, the Directory assumed control of the French state in 1795 and held power until 1799, when it was replaced by the Consulate under Napoleon Bonaparte. 
noLabel	During the first six-months, even after considering the cost of administering the housing, 95 residents in a Housing First programme in downtown Seattle, the study reported an average cost-savings of 53 percent—nearly US $2,500 per month per person in health and social services, compared to the per month costs of a wait-list control group of 39 homeless people.	Further, despite the fact residents are not required to be abstinent or in treatment for alcohol use, stable housing also results in reduced drinking among homeless alcoholics.
noLabel	In 1839, Charles Goodyear discovered a way of processing natural rubber, which is too stiff when cold and too soft when warm, in such a way as to make it elastic.	This proved to have advantages for the manufacture of condoms; unlike the sheep's gut condoms, they could stretch and did not tear quickly when used.
noLabel	Threatening the President of the United States is a class D felony under United States Code Title 18, Section 871 .	The offense is punishable by five years in prison, a $250,000 fine, a $100 special assessment, and 3 years of supervised release .
noLabel	The most recent mass movement for political freedom was crushed in the Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989, the estimated death toll of which ranges from about 200 to 10,000 depending on sources .	In November 1992, 192 number of Chinese political activists and democracy advocates submitted a petition to the 16th National Congress of the Communist Party of China to introduce political reforms.
noLabel	For natural gas, pipelines are constructed of carbon steel and vary in size from in diameter, depending on the type of pipeline.	The gas is pressurized by compressor stations and is odourless unless mixed with a mercaptan odorant where required by a regulating authority.
noLabel	Hair analysis to detect drugs of abuse have been used by UK and Canadian courts, and hair testing for alcohol markers is now recognised in both the UK and US judicial systems.	There are guidelines for hair testing that have been published by the Society of Hair Testing that specify the markers to be tested for and the cutoff concentrations that need to be tested.
noLabel	Other sports with loyal followings include snooker, which is popular with television companies as it fills their schedules at a very low cost, and also attracts good audiences.	However, its popularity has waned somewhat since 1985, when nearly a third of the British population watched the conclusion of the celebrated Dennis Taylor versus Steve Davis World Championship final even though it ended after midnight.
noLabel	In 1987, the genre came into its own with the release of several highly influential console RPGs distinguishing themselves from computer RPGs.	Shigeru Miyamoto's Zelda II: The Adventure of Link for the Famicom Disk System was one of the earliest action role-playing games, combining the action-adventure game framework of its predecessor The Legend of Zelda with the statistical elements of turn-based RPGs .
noLabel	The San Francisco Vigilance Movement, although ostensibly a response to crime and corruption, also systematically victimized Irish immigrants, and later this was transformed into mob violence against Chinese immigrants.	Anti-Chinese sentiment was also rife in early Los Angeles, culminating in a notorious 1871 riot in which a mob attacked Chinese residents . 
noLabel	Following March 2011 local elections strong disagreement appeared within the governing UMP over the appropriateness of holding a debate on laïcité as desired by the President of the Republic.	On 30 March a letter appeared in La Croix signed by representatives of six religious bodies opposing the appropriateness of such a debate. 
noLabel	The Osirak facility remained in its damaged state until the 1991 Persian Gulf War, when it was completely destroyed by subsequent coalition air strikes, by the United States Air Force one of them being Package Q Strike .	During the war, 100 out of 120 members of the Knesset signed a letter of appreciation to Menachem Begin, thanking him for ordering the attack on Osirak . 
noLabel	The report concluded that the Israel Defence Force (IDF) and Palestinian militant groups had committed war crimes and possibly crimes against humanity.	While the report condemned violations by both sides, it differentiated between the moral and legal severity of the violations of the Israeli forces compared to those of Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups .
noLabel	Blood doping is the practice of boosting the number of red blood cells (RBCs) in the bloodstream in order to enhance athletic performance.	Because such blood cells carry oxygen from the lungs to the muscles, a higher concentration in the blood can improve an athlete’s aerobic capacity (VO2 max) and endurance.
noLabel	As president, Obama signed economic stimulus legislation in the form of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010.	Other domestic policy initiatives include the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 and the Budget Control Act of 2011.
noLabel	There is no generally accepted maximum level of penetration, as each system's capacity to compensate for intermittency differs, and the systems themselves will change over time.	Discussion of acceptable or unacceptable penetration figures should be treated and used with caution, as the relevance or significance will be highly dependent on local factors, grid structure and management, and existing generation capacity. 
noLabel	United States v. Skoien, - Steven Skoien, a Wisconsin man, convicted of two misdemeanor domestic violence convictions appealed his conviction based on the argument that the prohibition violated the individual rights to bear arms, as described in Heller.	After initial favorable rulings in lower court based on a standard of intermediate scrutiny, on July 13, 2010, the Seventh Circuit, sitting en banc, ruled 10-1 against Skoien and reinstated his conviction for a gun violation citing the strong relation between the law in question and the government objective .
noLabel	“Turkey needs to decide whether its present course is in its long-term interests, but America will stand with Israel.” In an interview with Charlie Rose, Vice President Joe Biden defended Israel's decision to intercept the pro-Palestinian flotilla bringing humanitarian aid to the coastal territory, but did not defend the Israel Navy raid itself.	He stated that "you can argue whether Israel should have dropped people onto that ship or not[, but Israel] has a right to know whether or not arms are being smuggled in.
noLabel	However, smoking prevalence and associated ill health continued to rise in the developed world in the first three decades following Richard Doll's discovery, with governments sometimes reluctant to curtail a habit seen as popular as a result - and increasingly organised disinformation efforts by the tobacco industry and their proxies (covered in more detail below).	Realisation dawned gradually that the health effects of smoking and tobacco use were susceptible only to a multi-pronged policy response which combined positive health messages with medical assistance to cease tobacco use and effective marketing restrictions, as initially indicated in a 1962 overview by the UK Royal College of Physicians and the 1964 report of the US Surgeon General .
noLabel	Wada has set up regional anti-doping units to try to span those areas of the world where, inevitably, there are priorities other than drugs in sport.Privately, many fear that areas of the world remain "safe havens" for those who wish to cheat.	They might be remote areas of the world where lots of international athletes gather to train, or where the nature of borders and customs control means that athletes get advance warning when testers are due to arrive.For Parkinson, the suspicion of a sporting public who are less inclined to trust what they see is a "sad" price worth paying if it brings increased vigilance and scrutiny.
noLabel	The IOC is now the largest single revenue source for the majority of IFs, with its contributions of Olympic broadcast revenue that assist the IFs in the development of their respective sports worldwide.	The IOC provides financial support from Olympic broadcast revenue to the 28 IFs of Olympic summer sports and the seven IFs of Olympic winter sports after the completion of the Olympic Games and the Olympic Winter Games, respectively. 
noLabel	Gun rights advocates cite the use of firearms for self-protection and to deter violent crime as reasons why more guns can reduce crime .	Gun rights advocates also say criminals are the least likely to obey firearms laws, and so limiting access to guns by law-abiding people makes them more vulnerable to armed criminals .
noLabel	While the terms "false" and "deceptive" are essentially the same for most, being deceptive is not the same as producing deception.	What is illegal is the potential to deceive, which is interpreted to occur when consumers see the advertising to be stating to them, explicitly or implicitly, a claim that they may not realize is false and material.
noLabel	It states that: “This revolution will only take effect when all women become fully aware of their deplorable condition, and of the rights they have lost in society”.	The Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen follows the seventeen articles of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen point for point and has been described by Camille Naish as “almost a parody.. of the original document”.
noLabel	As an incentive to join the MSA, the agreement provides that, if an SPM joined within ninety days following the MSA's "Execution Date," that SPM is exempt ("exempt SPM") from making annual payments to the settling states unless the SPM increases its share of the national cigarette market beyond its 1998 market share, or beyond 125% of that SPM's 1997 market share.	If the exempt SPM's market share in a given year increases beyond those relevant historic limits, the MSA requires that the exempt SPM make annual payments to the settling states, similar to those made by the OPMs, but based only upon the SPM's sales representing the exempt SPM's market share increase . 
noLabel	It also warned residents that their homes would be targeted if they were located in an area of possible target .	Dr. Yaniv Levitan of the University of Haifa said that the aim of the flyers was not to demoralize the civil population, but to implant recognition in hearts and minds that Hamas has failed, that there is an option of choosing another path . 
noLabel	For some individualists, who hold a view known as methodological individualism, the word "society" cannot refer to anything more than a very large collection of individuals.	Society does not have an existence above or beyond these individuals, and thus cannot be properly said to carry out actions, since actions require intentionality, intentionality requires an agent, and society as a whole cannot be properly said to possess agency; only individuals can be agents.
noLabel	In 2008, an example of such studies was funded by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, U.S. Department of Justice to the Center for Mental Health and Media .	These studies were released in the book, Grand Theft Childhood, wherein it was found that among girls, nine of the "top ten [most popular video games] were nonviolent games such as Mario titles, Dance Dance Revolution or simulation games" compared to a majority of violent games in the top ten favorites of boys .
noLabel	Swedish Jews and Muslims objected to the law, and in 2001, the World Jewish Congress called it "the first legal restriction on Jewish religious practice in Europe since the Nazi era.	" The requirement for an anaesthetic to be administered by a medical professional is a major issue, and the low degree of availability of certified professionals willing to conduct circumcision has also been subject to criticism .
noLabel	In the UK, the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB) concluded that "The available evidence suggests that appropriately positioned wind farms do not pose a significant hazard for birds.	" It notes that climate change poses a much more significant threat to wildlife, and therefore supports wind farms and other forms of renewable energy.
noLabel	As in the Marxist theory of unemployment, special interests may also benefit: some employers may expect that employees with no fear of losing their jobs will not work as hard, or will demand increased wages and benefit.	According to this theory, unemployment may promote general labour productivity and profitability by increasing employers' rationale for their monopsony-like power (and profits) . 
noLabel	The new decade has seen rising interest in the possibility of next generation consoles being developed in keeping with the traditional industry model of a five-year console lifecycle.	However, in the industry there is believed to be a lack of desire for another race to produce such a console .
noLabel	In July 2010 medical personnel from the U.S. Army practiced the techniques they would use to treat people injured by an atomic blast.	The exercises were carried out at a training center in Indiana, and were set up to "simulate the aftermath of a small nuclear bomb blast, set off in a U.S. city by terrorists" .
noLabel	" Another common objection is that genes cannot survive alone, but must cooperate to build an individual, and therefore cannot be an independent "unit" .	In The Extended Phenotype, Dawkins suggests that because of genetic recombination and sexual reproduction, from an individual gene's viewpoint all other genes are part of the environment to which it is adapted. 
noLabel	The training process usually starts when the small boy is of age 10-11 and becomes a full grown master at the age of 20-25.	Many years of hard work and disciplining under the authority of the master is the key to the young apprentice's education and learning process. 
noLabel	Within the broad category of cultural and sociopolitical factors are public attitudes and values (63%), individual/household behavior (53%), public unconcern toward forest environments (43%), missing basic values (36%), and unconcern by individuals (32%).	Demographic factors were the in-migration of colonizing settlers into sparsely populated forest areas (38%) and growing population density — a result of the first factor — in those areas (25%). 
noLabel	While not perfect, the condom is effective at reducing the transmission of organisms that cause AIDS, genital herpes, cervical cancer, genital warts, syphilis, chlamydia, gonorrhea, and other diseases .	Condoms are often recommended as an adjunct to more effective birth control methods (such as IUD) in situations where STD protection is also desired . 
noLabel	They also saw marriage as a moral companionship between equals rather than a biological or social necessity, and practiced these views in their lives as well as their teachings .	The Stoics adopted the views of the Cynics and added them to their own theories of human nature, thus putting their sexual egalitarianism on a strong philosophical basis .
noLabel	Motivated by seeing few African American diplomats on his trips abroad, he founded the Charles B. Rangel International Affairs Program in 2002.	It is a collaboration between Howard University and the U.S. State Department that has significantly increased the number of minorities working in the U.S. Foreign Service . 
noLabel	These games also included re-worked versions with female protagonists, Philly Flasher (Beat 'Em & Eat 'Em), Bachelorette Party (Bachelor Party), and General Retreat (Custer's Revenge).	The re-released version of Custer's Revenge was titled Westward Ho!, and featured slight modifications, such as the Native American woman beckoning to indicate that she welcomed Custer's advances.
noLabel	The Shimazu clan not only wanted its share of the Ryūkyūan trade with mainland Japan and Southeast Asia, but also to gain favor with the regime in Edo (modern-day Tokyo).	The kingdom had not paid respects to the new regime; therefore, permission was granted by the rulers in Edo to invade the kingdom. 
noLabel	As fast food chains expand, fast food chains must increase the quantity of their livestock in order to produce more products such as hamburgers and chicken Mcnuggets.	In order to meet the large demands of soya, Cargill is forced to expand its soya production by clear cutting parts of the Amazon . 
noLabel	The barrier's plan is based on the designs of the Israeli West Bank barrier and will be 3.6 m (11.8 ft) high.	The stated aim of the fence is to stop infiltration of terrorists, prevent smuggling, and end illegal immigration from Bangladesh .
noLabel	He was an enthusiast for French ideas as he ridiculed German culture and was unaware of the remarkable advances it was undergoing.	Voltaire, who had been imprisoned and maltreated by the French government, was eager to accept Frederick's invitation to live at his palace.
noLabel	Human Rights Watch noted in the open letter to Ismail Haniyeh that despite his Foreign Ministry stance as part of response to the Goldstone Report, Palestinian armed groups remain responsible for firing rockets indiscriminately or deliberately at Israeli civilian objects.	HRW also noted that Palestinian militants put Palestinian civilians at risk of Israeli counter-attacks by launching rockets from populated areas .The UN fact finding mission stated that the firing of rockets at Israel constituted a deliberate attack against the civilian population and was in violation of international law . 
noLabel	" The test, itself, was seen as fair in a formal sense, but the overall result was seen as nevertheless unfair.	In India, the Indian Institutes of Technology found that to achieve substantive equality of opportunity, the school had to reserve 22.5 percent of seats for applicants from "historically disadvantaged schedule castes and tribes.
noLabel	Many younger generations, who cannot speak Mandarin due to the ban decades earlier, choose to learn Mandarin, as many learning centers open throughout the country.	The Ambon, Maluku was the site of some of the worst violence between Christian and Muslim groups that gripped the Maluku Islands between 1999 and 2002 .
noLabel	During a patrol, the submarine is required to remain silent for three months and is allowed to make contact with the base only in a dire emergency.	The submarine navigates using mapped contour lines of the ocean floor and patrols a series of preplanned "boxes" measuring several thousand square miles.
noLabel	The main danger to a boat person is that the boat he or she is sailing in may actually be anything that floats and is large enough for passengers.	Although such makeshift craft can result in tragedy, in 2003 a small group of 5 Cuban refugees attempted (unsuccessfully, but un-harmed) to reach Florida in a 1950s pickup truck made buoyant by oil barrels strapped to its sides. 
noLabel	Gotthold Ephraim Lessing (1729–1781), German dramatist and philosopher, trusted in a "Christianity of Reason", in which human reason (initiated by criticism and dissent) would develop, even without help by divine revelation.	His plays about Jewish characters and themes, such as "Die Juden" and "Nathan der Weise", "have usually been considered impressive pleas for social and religious toleration" .
noLabel	Rich criticized American schools for being "monopolistic" and a "millstone around our children's necks" and wrote that "America consistently (was) lagging behind its industrialized peers in academic achievement.	" He felt a "competitive education market" would lead to "innovation and improvement" yet he believed the "educational establishment" is opposed to change .
noLabel	Thus, when the Hottentot Venus was displayed in England in the beginning of the 19th century, the African Association publicly opposed itself to the exhibition.	The same year that Kipling published his poem, Joseph Conrad published Heart of Darkness (1899), a clear criticism of the Congo Free State owned by Leopold II of Belgium. 
noLabel	Although Obama and Clinton were largely well matched in most of the subsequent primaries, Obama's better organization and uncontested caucus victories were crucial to him winning the Democratic nomination.	John McCain was initially not doing well among the Rebublican contenders in 2007 decided to skip Iowa and concentrate on New Hampshire, the same primary where he had unexpectedly triumphed back in 2000, and McCain's win rejuvenated his presidential campaign and he became the Republican nominee.
noLabel	" you may end up with very, very significant problems in the relationship between the new border police and its work with the former parent agencies, namely Customs, immigration service and the police”….	"to work together, but to ensure that they still had professional and practical lines back into their respective agencies .. you get people to co-operate much more effectively on the ground .. but bear in mind the real importance of those links back to the parent agencies". 
noLabel	Since we can’t know what knowledge will be most needed in the future, it is senseless to try to teach it in advance.	Instead, we should try to turn out people who love learning so much and learn so well that they will be able to learn whatever needs to be learned . 
noLabel	This is an important field of study because as educators, business employees, or any other form of career that consists of communicating with ones from other cultures you; need to understand non-verbal signs and their meanings, so you avoid offensive conversation, or misleading conversation.	Below is a list of non-verbal gestures that are appropriate in one country, and that would be considered deviant in another. 
noLabel	One of the most widely used parent counseling programs is Steps to Prevent Firearm Injury program (STOP), which was developed in 1994 by the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence .	STOP was superseded by STOP 2 in 1998, which has a broader focus including more communities and health care providers .
noLabel	Alaska also begins with the full text of the Second Amendment, but adds that the right, "shall not be denied or infringed by the State or a political subdivision of the State" .	Rhode Island, on the other hand, subtracts the first half of the Second Amendment leaving only, "[t]he right of the people to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed" . 
noLabel	President Obama established a budget reform commission, the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform, which released a draft report in December 2010.	It included various tax and spend adjustments to bring long-run government tax revenue and spending into line at approximately 21% of GDP, with $4 trillion debt avoidance over 10 years . 
noLabel	The U.S. President authorized the transfer of "nuclear weapon parts" to the UK between at least the years 1975 to 1996 .	The UK National Audit Office noted that most of the UK Trident warhead development and production expenditure was incurred in the United States, which would supply "certain warhead-related components" .
noLabel	Many have fled again to Bangladesh to seek work or shelter, or flee from Burmese military oppression, and some are forced across the border by Burmese security forces.	In the past few months, abuses against Rohingya in Arakan State has continued, including strict registration laws that continue to deny Rohingya citizenship, restrictions on movement, land confiscation and forced evictions to make way for Buddhist Burmese settlements, widespread forced labor in infrastructure projects and closure of some mosques, including nine in North Buthidaung Township of Western Arakan State in the last half of 2006 . 
noLabel	The phrase "political correctness" was born as a coded cover for all who still want to say Paki, spastic or queer, all those who still want to pick on anyone not like them, playground bullies who never grew up.	The politically correct society is the civilised society, however much some may squirm at the more inelegant official circumlocutions designed to avoid offence .
noLabel	After saying that global warming would affect Alaska more than any other state, Palin added: "I'm not one..who would attribute it to being man-made.	" But she has not completely ruled it out: "Show me where I have ever said that there's absolute proof that nothing that man has ever conducted or engaged in has had any effect or no effect on climate change.
noLabel	Ibn Khaldoun, a famous North African Arab polymath (1332–1406), considered population changes to be connected to economic development, linking high birth rates and low death rates to times of economic upswing, and low birth rates and high death rates to economic downswing.	Khaldoun concluded that high population density rather than high absolute population numbers were desirable to achieve more efficient division of labour and cheap administration . 
noLabel	It is said to be more reliable since it typically has thousands of independent programmers testing and fixing bugs of the software.	It is flexible because modular systems allow programmers to build custom interfaces, or add new abilities to it and it is innovative since open source programs are the product of collaboration among a large number of different programmers.
noLabel	In 1521 Cortés defeated the Aztec empire in Mesoamerica, which was followed by a large influx of Spanish clergy, whose writings provide most of information about pre-conquest Aztec life and customs largely assembled from interviews with those who survived the invasion and subsequent epidemics, and their descendents.	Diego Durán, a Dominican friar, was convinced that the Aztecs were one of the lost tribes of Israel, with a crucial piece of supporting evidence being that they had practised circumcision . 
noLabel	Universities generally require a certain amount of bagrut matriculation units (as well as a certain grade average) and a good grade in the Psychometric Entrance Test, which is similar in many respects to the American SAT.	All of Israel's eight public universities, and some colleges, are subsidized by the state, and students pay only a small part of the actual cost as tuition. 
noLabel	A central thesis of the argument is that, compared to supernatural abiogenesis, evolution by natural selection requires the supposition of fewer hypothetical processes and thus, according to Occam's razor, a better explanation than the God hypothesis.	He cites a paragraph where Richard Swinburne agrees that a simpler explanation is better but reasons that theism is simpler because it only invokes a single substance, God, as a cause and maintainer of every other object.
noLabel	3-2-3-Body-head-body or 3-3-2 Body-Body-head is drilled with the stationary dummy and on the bag until the fighter is able to punch by rapid combinations with what D'Amato called "bad intentions".	The style allows swift neck movements as well quick duckings and bad returning damage, usually by rising uppercuts or even rising hooks. 
noLabel	Aside from the usual justifications of pornography, language and violence, some films are censored due to changing racial attitudes or political correctness in order to avoid ethnic stereotyping and/or ethnic offense despite its historical or artistic value.	One example is the still withdrawn "Censored Eleven" series of animated cartoons, which may have been innocent then, but are "incorrect" now.
noLabel	Previously, homeless alcoholics opted to stay on the streets often seeking alcohol from unsafe sources such as mouthwash, rubbing alcohol or industrial products which, in turn, resulted in frequent use of emergency medical facilities.	The programme has been duplicated in other Canadian cities and a study of Ottawa's "wet shelter" found that emergency room visit and police encounters by clients were cut by half .
noLabel	The British Medical Association (BMA) has questioned the purported medical benefits but described the process as neutral in terms of its medical impact.	National bodies in Canada and the Netherlands recommend against it as a standard procedure – a position backed up by the BMA.
noLabel	In this way, successful migrants may use their new capital to provide for better schooling for their children and better homes for their families.	Successful high-skilled emigrants may serve as an example for neighbors and potential migrants who hope to achieve that level of success .
noLabel	From the mid-eighteenth century until at least 1947, and longer in many areas, the British Empire covered a large proportion of the globe and at its peak over a third of the world's people lived under British rule.	Both during this time, and following the granting of independence to most colonies after Second World War, the vast majority of immigrants to the UK were from either current or former colonies, most notably those in the Indian subcontinent and the Caribbean. 
noLabel	In 2011, UN under-secretary general Achim Steiner said: "The continuing growth in this core segment of the green economy is not happening by chance.	The combination of government target-setting, policy support and stimulus funds is underpinning the renewable industry's rise and bringing the much needed transformation of our global energy system within reach."
noLabel	In Davis v. Federal Election Commission,  (2008), the Supreme Court declared the "Millionaire's Amendment" provisions of the BCRA to be unconstitutional.	The Court held that easing BCRA restrictions for an opponent of a self-financing candidate spending at least $350,000 of his own money violated the freedom of speech of the self-financing candidate. 
noLabel	In the subsequent investigation and enquiry there was much confusion as to whether the Immigration Service had been aware of the illegal workers at Morecambe bay and might have prevented their exploitation and deaths.	It transpired that the local office did, on occasion, support police in similar circumstances and first of all said that they thought had been involved in supporting a police operation to target cockle pickers but then discovered that this had been a different group on a different day.
noLabel	Some players who say they do not use muscle-building drugs contend that this places them in a difficult position: either join in and use the banned substances or risk losing ground to players who use them in an effort to win the huge contracts that come with hitting the ball farther or throwing it harder.	These players also contend that their union, the Major League Players Association, is jeopardizing the health of its members by resisting mandatory testing for the use of potentially hazardous drugs.
noLabel	Instead, firearms, usually one or two pistols and a shotgun, are carried in squad cars, and in a highly secure mount.	When firearms are discharged in public, the police often come under intense scrutiny from both media and public but are seldom dealt with, whereas an ordinary citizen excising their right to use 'reasonable force' (see Crimes Act 1961) to stop a home invasion are usually prosecuted.
noLabel	Throughout its history, CAGW has been accused of fronting lobbying efforts of corporations to give them the appearance of "grassroots" support .	In part, this is because CAGW has accepted donations from Phillip Morris, the Olin Foundation, the Bradley Foundation, Microsoft, Merrill Lynch, and Exxon-Mobil. 
noLabel	The conference and proceedings that resulted sought to bridge a gap existing at the time between theory in ecology and population biology on the one hand and conservation policy and practice on the other .	Conservation biology and the concept of biological diversity (biodiversity) emerged together, helping crystallize the modern era of conservation science and policy.
noLabel	The energy consumed to manufacture and transport the materials used to build a wind power plant is equal to the new energy produced by the plant within a few months.	While a wind farm may cover a large area of land, many land uses such as agriculture are compatible, with only small areas such as turbine foundations and infrastructure made unavailable for use . 
noLabel	This practice has increased over the past few decades and today now accounts for a significant portion of illegal immigration in countries around the world.	People smuggling generally takes place with the consent of the person or persons being smuggled, and common reasons for individuals seeking to be smuggled include employment and economic opportunity, personal and/or familial betterment, and escape from persecution or conflict.
noLabel	By the beginning of the 19th century, the world population had grown to a billion individuals, and intellectuals such as Thomas Malthus and physiocratic economists predicted that mankind would outgrow its available resources, since a finite amount of land was incapable of supporting an endlessly increasing population.	Mercantillists argued that a large population was a form of wealth, which made it possible to create bigger markets and armies. 
noLabel	When unusual sex ratios at birth (or any other age) are observed, it is important to consider misreporting, misrecording, or underregistration of births or deaths as possible reasons.	Some researchers have in part attributed the high male to female sex ratios reported in mainland China in the last 25 years to the underreporting of the births of female children after the implementation of the one-child policy, though alternative explanations are now generally more widely accepted, including above all the use of ultrasound technology and sex-selective abortion of female fetuses and, probably to a more limited degree, neglect or in some cases infanticide of females.
noLabel	If a fight is stopped due to a cut resulting from a legal punch, the other participant is awarded a technical knockout win.	For this reason, fighters often employ cutmen, whose job is to treat cuts between rounds so that the boxer is able to continue despite the cut .
noLabel	Though the teratogenic properties of nicotine may or may not yet have been adequately researched, women who use nicotine gum and patches during the early stages of pregnancy face an increased risk of having babies with birth defects, according to a study of around 77,000 pregnant women in Denmark.	The study found that women who use nicotine-replacement therapy in the first 12 weeks of pregnancy have a 60% greater risk of having babies with birth defects, compared to women who are non-smokers. 
noLabel	In January 2007, Stanisław Cardinal Dziwisz of Kraków, his former secretary, announced that the interview phase of the beatification process, in Italy and Poland, was nearing completion .	In February 2007, relics of Pope John Paul II—pieces of white papal cassocks he used to wear—were freely distributed with prayer cards for the cause, a typical pious practice after a saintly Catholic's death .
noLabel	Iran has stated the Shahab-3 is the last of its war missiles and the Shahab-4 is being developed to give the country the capability of launching communications and surveillance satellites.	A Shahab-5, an intercontinental ballistic missile with a 10,000&nbsp;km range, has been alleged but not proven to be under development . 
noLabel	The bill requires that $73.5 million of the $400 million for Mexico must be used for judicial reform, institution-building, human rights and rule-of-law issues.	The bill specifies that 15% of the funds will be dependent on Mexico making headway in four areas relating to human-rights issues, and on which the U.S. Secretary of State will have to report periodically to Congress . 
noLabel	Promoting synergies between climate change mitigation and adaptation across landscapes: More research is needed to explore linkages between adaptation and mitigation in forests at different scales.	Two specific challenges – agreement on monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) systems, and continued improvements in forest governance were also discussed. 
noLabel	The label “open source” was adopted by some people in the free software movement at a strategy session held at Palo Alto, California, in reaction to Netscape's January 1998 announcement of a source code release for Navigator.	The group of individuals at the session included Christine Peterson who suggested “open source”, Todd Anderson, Larry Augustin, Jon Hall, Sam Ockman, Michael Tiemann and Eric S. Raymond.
noLabel	"Hate crime" generally refers to criminal acts that are seen to have been motivated by bias against one or more of the types above, or of their derivatives.	Incidents may involve physical assault, damage to property, bullying, harassment, verbal abuse or insults, or offensive graffiti or letters (hate mail) . 
noLabel	Computer average: An average of the rankings of a team in three different computer polls were gathered (Jeff Sagarin/USA Today, Anderson-Hester/Seattle Times, and New York Times), with a 50% adjusted maximum deviation factor.	(For instance, if the computers had ranked a team third, fifth, and twelfth, the poll which ranked the team twelfth would be adjusted to rank the team sixth.)
noLabel	Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves and his Unity Labour Party (ULP) campaigned heavily for the "Yes" vote, Gonsalves advocating that, though he had nothing personally against Queen Elizabeth II, he believed it was time for Saint Vincent to stop having a monarch as its head of state; he offered the opinion: "I find it a bit of a Nancy story that the Queen of England can really be the Queen of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.	" Though he had earlier shown affinity towards executive presidents Hugo Chávez and Fidel Castro, Gonsalves asserted that the proposed constitution for Saint Vincent and the Grenadines would not have created such a presidential post; the Prime Minister argued that an executive presidency would give the office holder too much power in the small country.
noLabel	In recent years, estimates for deforestation and forest degradation were shown to account for 20-25% of greenhouse gas emissions, higher than the transportation sector .	Recent work shows that the combined contribution of deforestation, forest degradation and peatland emissions accounts for about 15% of greenhouse gas emissions, about the same as the transportation sector .
noLabel	"Dear brothers and sisters, after the great Pope John Paul II, the Cardinals have elected me, a simple, humble labourer in the vineyard of the Lord.	The fact that the Lord knows how to work and to act even with insufficient instruments comforts me, and above all I entrust myself to your prayers.
noLabel	In the USA, the physical education curriculum is designed to allow school pupils a full range of modern opportunities, dozens of sports and hundreds of carefully reviewed drills and exercises, including exposure to the education with the use of pedometer, GPS, and heart rate monitors, as well as state-of-the-art exercise machines in the upper grades.	Some martial arts classes, like wrestling in the United States, and Pencak Silat in France, Indonesia and Malaysia, are taught to teach children self-defense and to feel good about themselves.
noLabel	Since July 2003 when the Local Independent Administrative Institutions Law was put into effect, public universities have been allowed to be incorporated .	The average tuition in public universities for 2007 fiscal year was 536,238 yen, the average entrance fee 399,351 yen and the average application fee 17,095 yen .
noLabel	(1999) also criticised Van Howe's paper, stating that his results were a case of "Simpson's paradox, which is a type of confounding that can occur in epidemiological analyses when data from different strata with widely divergent exposure levels are combined, resulting in a combined measure of association that is not consistent with the results for each of the individual strata."	They concluded that, contrary to Van Howe's assertion, the evidence that lack of circumcision increases the risk of HIV "appears compelling" . 
noLabel	<Xenophon, Spartan Society, 1 Nor were they confined to their father's house and prevented from exercising or getting fresh air as in Athens, but exercised and even competed in sports.	<Xenophon, Spartan Society, 1 Most important, rather than being married off at the age of 12 or 13, Spartan law forbade the marriage of a girl until she was in her late teens or early twenties.
noLabel	More players should be out in the market to provide quality support which the normal schools doesn't provide with the skewed class size and traditional teaching techniques.	From the existing set of After-school providers the ones with individualized learning modules, complimenting school (K-12) are the most sought after ., India's first of its kind for-profit provider, runs and manage academically oriented individualized after-school programs complimenting school syllabus across New Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon and Faridabad areas.
noLabel	In 2002, about 9% of women at risk for unintended pregnancy were teenagers, but about 20% of the unintended pregnancies in the United States are to teenagers .	A somewhat larger proportion of unintended births are reported as mistimed, rather than unwanted, for teens compared to women in general (79% mistimed for teens vs. 69% among all women in 1998) .
noLabel	Starting in spring, 2011, environmental and global warming activist Bill McKibben took the question of the pipeline to NASA scientist James Hansen, who told McKibben the pipeline would be "game over for the planet" .	McKibben and other activists moved toward a new oppositional approach which coalesced in August with over 1000&nbsp;nonviolent arrests at the White House.
noLabel	When groups have strong ties to a legislator's district, those groups will use a combination of grassroots and direct lobbying, even if the legislator's original position does not support theirs, which may help groups expand their supportive coalitions .	When strong district ties are not present, groups tend to rely on direct lobbying with committee allies, because they assume that their political friends will be drawn to participate with the lobbyist view .
noLabel	The registration must occur within 45 days after the individual lobbyist makes a first plan to contact, or lobby, to the President, Vice President, or any highly ranked Federal official.	Those that do not follow in accordance with the Disclosure Act are penalized, including fines of over $50,000 and being reported to the United States Attorney .
noLabel	Under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the top marginal income tax rate of married individuals filling-jointly was lowered from 50% to 28% while the bottom rate was raised from 11% to 15% .	The upper income level of the married filing jointly bottom tax rate was increased from $5,720 per year to $29,750 per year while several lower tax brackets were collapsed into two.
noLabel	Also in 1998, but after the UNM survey was conducted, nuclear weapons became an issue in India's election of March, in relation to political tensions with neighboring Pakistan.	Prior to the election the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) announced it would “declare India a nuclear weapon state” after coming to power. 
noLabel	As an example, after the American Railway Union was destroyed, Eugene Debs, who had read Marx while serving his sentence, turned to politics, seeking solutions to the problems of working people through socialism .	Some railroad workers in Indiana, Kansas, and Illinois who had been a part of Debs' ARU in 1894 resented the fact that Debs turned to socialism for, .
noLabel	Key ministries including justice, defence and the interior will remain under the control of the military and under the 2008 constitution, a quarter of the 440 parliament seats will be reserved for the military officials .	People holding military positions are not permitted to contest the election; as such, 20 members of the junta, including Prime Minister Thein Sein, retired from their posts to participate in the election .
noLabel	Global Integrity and the International Budget Partnership each dispense with public surveys and instead uses in-country experts to evaluate "the opposite of corruption" – which Global Integrity defines as the public policies that prevent, discourage, or expose corruption .	These approaches compliment the first wave, awareness-raising tools by giving governments facing public outcry a checklist which measures concrete steps toward improved governance . 
noLabel	In 1985 Professor William H. McNeill, a Canadian historian known for his expertise on the subject of polyethnicity, gave a series of three lectures on polyethnicity in ancient and modern cultures at the University of Toronto .	The main thesis throughout the lectures was that it has been the cultural norm for societies to be made up of different ethnic groups.
noLabel	She further argues that while the European Union and the US strongly advocate for trade liberalization when awarding development aid assistance to developing countries, they heavily subsidizes their agricultural sectors by about $ 35-40 billion and $190 per year respectively.	As a result of these disguised policies it was discovered that developing countries in 2002 alone made a transfer of about $200 billion to donor countries.
noLabel	It is found, in the first place, that the illiteracy test will bear most heavily upon the Italians, Russians, Poles, Hungarians, Greeks, and Asiatics, and very lightly, or not at all, upon English-speaking emigrants, or Germans, Scandinavians, and French.	In other words, the races most affected by the illiteracy test are those whose emigration to this country has begun within the last twenty years and swelled rapidly to enormous proportions, races with which the English speaking people have never hitherto assimilatated, and who are most alien to the great body of the people of the United States . 
noLabel	Indeed, to build greater conformity where deviancy is socially unacceptable, the New Right advocates the allocation of resources into the education system to underpin adherence to moral values.	This is an informal and internal system of control to match the formal and external controls through lawmaking and enforcement through policing.
noLabel	Further, expiration of the Bush Tax Cuts and other tax cuts passed during President Obama's administration are scheduled to occur in 2012, which add $4.7 trillion in revenue over a decade.	According to CBO, letting current laws take effect will bring the budget into primary balance (i.e., excluding interest) by 2014 . 
noLabel	To address these problems, five conferences, six bowl games, and leading independent Notre Dame joined forces to create the Bowl Coalition, which was intended to force a de facto "national championship game" between the top two teams.	By entirely excluding all the other conferences, the Bowl Coalition also made it impossible for a non-Bowl Coalition team to win a national championship.
noLabel	The possibility of monarchy declining morally, overturning natural law, and degenerating into a tyranny oppressive of the general welfare was answered theologically with the Catholic concept of extra-legal tyrannicide, ideally ratified by the pope.	The pope assumed at times, due to the non-existence of other possibilities and on account of the Church's spiritual superiority over kingdoms, the place of an arbiter of natural and divine law in deposing kings that had offended it, for instance, in attacking the liberty of the church.
noLabel	The second of these bills, was the Rebuild America Jobs Act, , a bill to put workers back on the job while rebuilding and modernizing America, would've spent $50 billion on transportation infrastructure projects and $10 billion to fund an "infrastructure bank.	" The bill was introduced by Senator Amy Klobuchar on October 31, 2011 and failed in a 51-49 vote for cloture on November 3, 2011 .
noLabel	Pumped storage recovers about 75% of the energy consumed, and is currently the most cost effective form of mass power storage.	The chief problem with pumped storage is that it usually requires two nearby reservoirs at considerably different heights, and often requires considerable capital expenditure . 
noLabel	The Republican party filed a suit on January 7 in Chelan County claiming that voters had been deprived of their right to a "free and fair election", and demanding a revote by special election.	While the evidence focused especially on problems in King County, adjacent Chelan was chosen as the venue because it was more solidly Republican and the GOP questioned the ability of King County judges to rule impartially in such a case . 
noLabel	Social disorganization theory and cultural transmission theory examine the consequences when a community is unable to conform to common values and to solve the problems of its residents.	Shaw and McKay (1942) applied Sutherland's theory of systematic criminal behavior, and claimed that delinquency was not caused at the individual level, but is a normal response by normal individuals to abnormal conditions.
noLabel	Therefore, areas classified as ‘biodiversity hotspots’, or those in which a flagship, umbrella, or endangered species inhabits are often the habitats that are given precedence over others.	Species that possess an elevated risk of extinction are given the highest priority and as a result of conserving their habitat, other species in that community are protected thus serving as an element of gap analysis.
noLabel	Meanwhile, Trudeau, who had become Liberal leader and prime minister in 1968, still very much wanted a constitutional bill of rights.	The federal government and the provinces discussed creating one during negotiations for patriation, which resulted in the Victoria Charter in 1971.
noLabel	A total of 8 presidents served two full terms and declined a third and three presidents served one full term and refused a second.	After World War II, however, an officeholder class had developed to the point that congressional tenure rivaled that of the U.S. Supreme Court, where tenure is for life.
noLabel	In the early 1920s, the first radio stations were established by radio equipment manufacturers and retailers who offered programs in order to sell more radios to consumers.	As time passed, many non-profit organizations followed suit in setting up their own radio stations, and included: schools, clubs and civic groups .
noLabel	While many competitive sailors are employed in businesses related to sailing (primarily sailmaking, naval architecture, boatbuilding and coaching), most are not compensated for their own competitions.	In large keelboat racing, such as the Volvo Around the World Race and the America's Cup, this amateur spirit has given way in recent years to large corporate sponsorships and paid crews.
noLabel	In its first days, an Internet petition calling for the cessation of extra-judicial intimidation of WikiLeaks attracted over six hundred thousand signatures .	Supporters of WikiLeaks in the media and academia have commended it for exposing state and corporate secrets, increasing transparency, supporting freedom of the press, and enhancing democratic discourse while challenging powerful institutions . 
noLabel	The World Bank concludes that increasing land rights is ‘the key to reducing poverty’ citing that land rights greatly increase poor people’s wealth, in some cases doubling it .	It is estimated that state recognition of the property of the poor would give them assets worth 40 times all the foreign aid since 1945 .
noLabel	A 2004 Amnesty International report says that, between 1989 and 2004, more than 1,300 political prisoners have been imprisoned after unfair trials.	The prisoners, including National League for Democracy (NLD) leaders Aung San Suu Kyi and U Tin Oo, have "been wrongfully denied their liberty for peaceful acts that would not be considered crimes under international law", Amnesty International claims . 
noLabel	Some consider the IEP to be a "management" program to guide appropriate service delivery, which includes the area of physical education.	The IEP creates an opportunity for teachers, parents, school administrators, related services personnel and students (when appropriate) to work together to improve educational results for learners with disabilities.
noLabel	The plurality election system is used in the Republic of China on Taiwan for executive offices such as county magistrates, mayors, and the president, but not for legislative seats which used the single non-transferable vote system.	This has produced an interesting party structure in which there are two broad coalitions of parties which cooperate in executive elections but which compete internally in legislative elections .
noLabel	A 2009 report showed that obstacles to Arab students participating in higher education resulted in over 5,000 moving to study in nearby Jordan .	And in 2010 human rights groups and lawyers criticized a number of measures which were introduced to benefit Jewish secondary school leavers and adversely affected Arab students intending to enroll in higher education . 
noLabel	The inheritance tax, which is also known as the "gift tax", has been altered in the Post-World War II era as well.	First established in 1932 as a means to raise tax revenue from the wealthiest Americans, the inheritance tax was put at a nominal rate of 25% points lower than the estate tax which meant its effective rate was 18.7%.
noLabel	Other words such as "sick", "diesel", "legit" and "beast" have become very popular terms used to express how amazing or awesome something is.	Some other terms used in positive manners to congratulate one another are "ftw" (for the win), "pwn", "pwnage" or "pwned" as in "You pwned (meaning to 'own' or 'shut down') him!"
noLabel	Christian orthodoxy accepts that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was a virgin at the time Jesus was conceived, based on the accounts in the gospels of Matthew and Luke .	The Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Oriental Orthodox denominations, additionally hold to the dogma of the perpetual virginity of Mary .
noLabel	To keep within the monetary union guidelines, the government of Greece had also for many years misreported the country's official economic statistics .	At the beginning of 2010, it was discovered that Greece had paid Goldman Sachs and other banks hundreds of millions of dollars in fees since 2001, for arranging transactions that hid the actual level of borrowing .
noLabel	 Greek Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Dimitris Droutsas summoned Ali Yahia, the Israeli Ambassador in Greece to inquire about the incident and convey the annoyance of the Greek government; he stressed that "nothing could justify the use of such violence.	" After the meeting he announced the discontinuation of the joint Greek-Israeli military exercise "Minoas 2010" as well as the postponement of the scheduled visit of the Israeli Air Force commander to Athens.
noLabel	The Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 stated that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was the governing body for construction of any structure in federal waters.	Any obstruction not approved by Congress would be prohibited from being constructed in any of the waters of the United States.
noLabel	Under a hereditary monarchy, all the monarchs come from the same family, and the crown is passed down from one member to another member of the family.	The hereditary system has the advantages of stability, continuity and predictability, as well as the internal stabilizing factors of family affection and loyalty. 
noLabel	Israel began pressuring Egypt to do more to stop weapons smuggling into Gaza, the halting of which is one of Israel's central demands in extending a cease-fire.	On 27 January 2009, Foreign Minister of Egypt Ahmed Aboul Gheit discouraged Britain, France and Germany from sending warships to patrol the waters off Gaza, which the three European nations felt could help halt seaborne smuggling.
noLabel	On 29 April 2011, Pope John Paul&nbsp;II's coffin was exhumed from the grotto beneath St. Peter's Basilica ahead of his beatification, as tens of thousands of people arrived in Rome for one of the biggest events since his funeral .	John Paul II's remains (in a closed coffin) were placed in front of the Basilica's main altar, where believers could pay their respect before and after the beatification mass in St. Peter's Square on 1 May.
noLabel	Pimentel and Giampietro believe that agricultural crises will develop, but they will only begin to impact us after 2020, and will not become critical until 2050 .	Geologist Dale Allen Pfeiffer claims that coming decades could see spiraling food prices without relief and massive starvation on a global level never experienced before . 
noLabel	Nuclear fissions in fissile fuels are the result of the nuclear excitation energy produced when a fissile nucleus captures a neutron.	This energy, resulting from the neutron capture, is a result of the attractive nuclear force acting between the neutron and nucleus.
noLabel	In January 2010,the parent company Apollo Group was required to post a letter of credit for $125 million by January 30 of the same year .	In 2010, UOPX came under government scrutiny after its Phoenix and Philadelphia campuses were found to have been engaging in deceptive enrollment practices and fraudulent solicitation of FAFSA funds .
noLabel	According to analyst Ken Kollman, it is easier to sway public opinion than a congressional staff member since it is possible to bombard the public with "half-truths, distortion, scare tactics, and misinformation.	" Kollman suggests there should be two goals: (1) communicate that there is public support behind an issue to policymakers and (2) increase public support for the issue among constituents .
noLabel	World-wide attitudes to casual sex range from conservative and religious views, the extreme of which is capital punishment for sexual relations outside heterosexual marriage, to liberal or libertarian views, the extreme of which is free love.	During the sexual revolution in the United States and Europe in the 1960s and 1970s, social attitudes to sexual issues underwent considerable changes.
noLabel	The settlement also dissolved the tobacco industry groups Tobacco Institute, the Center for Indoor Air Research, and the Council for Tobacco Research.	In the MSA, the OPMs (Original Participating Manufacturers) agreed to pay a minimum of $206 billion over the first twenty-five years of the agreement.
noLabel	On June 2, it was reported that as a reaction to Israels raid on the flotilla, the Swedish Football Association would attempt to call off an upcoming qualifying game in Israel for the 2011 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship .	On June 5 it was reported that a one week ban of Israeli goods would be launched by the Swedish Port Workers Union .
noLabel	Cigarette prices in the Philippines are low, with the price of Marlboro (cigarette) being the second lowest for all ASEAN nations.	The cigarette market has been dominated by menthol brands for several decades, although non-menthol volume has been steadily improving in recent years.
noLabel	The term preparatoria is most commonly used for institutions that offer a 3-year educational program that "prepares" the student with general knowledge to continue studying at a university.	In contrast, the term bachillerato is most often used for institutions that provide vocational training, either in 2 or 3 years, so the graduate can get a job as a skilled worker, for example, an assistant accountant, a secretary or an electronics technician.
noLabel	By the Norman era after 1066, there had evolved two kinds of sanctuary: all churches had the lower-level kind (sanctuary within the church proper), but only churches licensed by the king had a broader version (sanctuary in a zone surrounding the church).	There were at least twenty-two churches with charters for a broader kind of sanctuary, including Battle Abbey, Beverley (see image, right), Colchester, Durham, Hexham, Norwich, Ripon, Wells, Winchester Cathedral, Westminster Abbey, and York Minster. 
noLabel	Initially after the American and French revolutions, the question was open whether a democracy, in order to restrain unchecked majority rule, should have an élite upper chamber, the members perhaps appointed meritorious experts or having lifetime tenures, or should have a constitutional monarch with limited but real powers.	Some countries (as Britain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Scandinavian countries, Thailand, Japan and Bhutan) turned powerful monarchs into constitutional monarchs with limited or, often gradually, merely symbolic roles. 
noLabel	It was a metaphor for the idealized process of immigration and colonization by which different nationalities, cultures and "races" (a term that could encompass nationality, ethnicity and race) were to blend into a new, virtuous community, and it was connected to utopian visions of the emergence of an American "new man".	While "melting" was in common use the exact term "melting pot" came into general usage in 1908, after the premiere of the play The Melting Pot by Israel Zangwill. 
noLabel	The sense of the argument is along these lines: equal opportunity rules regarding, say, a hiring decision within a factory, made to bring about greater fairness, violate a factory owner's rights to run the factory as he or she sees best; it has been argued that a factory owner's right to property encompasses all decision-making within the factory as being part of those property rights.	That some people's "natural assets" were unearned is irrelevant to the equation, according to Nozick, and he argued that people are nevertheless entitled to enjoy these assets and other things freely given by others . 
noLabel	Ethnic prejudices have also emerged in the drug war, and poor and helpless indigenous communities have been targeted by the police, military, drug traffickers and the justice system.	According to the National Human Rights Commission (Mexico) (Comisión Nacional de los Derechos Humanos-CNDH), nearly one-third of the indigenous prisoners in Mexico in 2001 were in prison for federal crimes, which are mostly drug related . 
noLabel	Human Rights Watch stated that police are presumptively civilians but on a specific case by case basis can be considered valid targets if formally incorporated into the armed forces of a party to a conflict or directly participate in the hostilities.	They stressed that blanket decisions must not be made about police being legitimate targets and that a decision that police and police stations are legitimate military targets depends on whether those police play a role in fighting against Israel, or whether a particular police station is used to store weapons or for some other military purpose .
noLabel	Thus, English learners are more likely to be placed in classes that are taught by teachers who are not fully credentialed.	According to the 2000 Class Size Reduction (CSR) teacher survey, 53% of English learners enrolled in grades 1-4, in California, during the 1999-2000 school year, were taught by a teacher with prior specialized training.
noLabel	Human Rights Watch called for a "full, impartial investigation" into the incident, and for the international community to make sure that any inquiries meet basic international standards, and that any wrongdoers were brought to justice.	Human Rights Watch also called on Israel to grant all detained and injured flotilla members immediate access to legal counsel and their families, and to disclose the identities of all those injured and killed .
noLabel	Results of the study funded by the Substance Abuse Policy Research Program (SAPRP) of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation appeared in the Journal of the American Medical Association April, 2009 .	This first US controlled assessment of the effectiveness of Housing First specifically targeting chronically homeless alcoholics showed that the programme saved tax-payers more than $4 million over the first year of operation.
noLabel	They share a belief that the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution enumerates an individual right, (as further elaborated by Justice Antonin Scalia of the SCOTUS) .	Generally they see people as trustworthy and believe that citizens should not be prevented from having guns unless they have done something to show that they are not to be trusted with them. 
noLabel	When the practice of sponsoring programs was popularised, each individual radio program was usually sponsored by a single business in exchange for a brief mention of the business' name at the beginning and end of the sponsored shows.	However, radio station owners soon realised they could earn more money by selling sponsorship rights in small time allocations to multiple businesses throughout their radio station's broadcasts, rather than selling the sponsorship rights to single businesses per show. 
noLabel	We see prevention as vitally important; after all, it is better to stop athletes using banned substances in the first place.Our prevention programme began in 1997 with spot checks on blood samples.	At first we examined only haematocrit - the proportion of solid matter including red cells - to combat the use of erythropoietin (EPO), then undetectable.
noLabel	Except for the Illegal immigrants held at prison facilities (about 1,900 in August 2010), the rest live and/or work in Israel.	The Israeli department of immigration does not keep continuous supervision over their place of residence but, according to estimates based on data from the Israeli police, the local authorities and the aid organizations, between 15,000–17,000 illegal immigrants live in Tel Aviv (especially in south Tel Aviv, although the number includes also the illegal immigrants who live in Bat Yam and Bnei Brak) and between 4,000 to 6,000 in Eilat.
noLabel	The storyline of the first Mortal Kombat was later adapted into Paul W. S. Anderson's Mortal Kombat motion picture, and also in an animated prequel to the first movie titled Mortal Kombat: The Journey Begins, released direct to video.	An alternate climax for the first game would be featured on the adventure game Mortal Kombat: Shaolin Monks, which tells an alternate version of the events between the first and second Mortal Kombat tournaments.
noLabel	Preparations to implement the new Act included a recruitment campaign in 1962 which brought the staffing of the Immigration Service up to 500 ready for the start date on 1 July 1962.	At midnight on 30 June 1962 the door was literally closed on some people as newly labelled entrances at Heathrow were uncovered and old ones shut. 
noLabel	However, unlike sex which is the product of biologically based male-female difference; gender is not natural but rather a sociocultural construction which refers to the relationship between men and women or femininity and masculinity.	It is this relationship that advertisers are obsessed with, because people define themselves by gender, and gender can be “communicated at a glance,” making it easy for advertisers to use this theme in their work .
noLabel	In response to a refusal by Catholic schools to commit to the programme, however, a separate sex education programme has been developed for use in those schools.	Funded by the Scottish Government, the programme Called to Love focuses on encouraging children to delay sex until marriage, and does not cover contraception, and as such is a form of abstinence-only sex education .
noLabel	Critics have also argued that although nuclear weapons contribute to stability at a strategic level, they can encourage smaller instances of instability that are not believed likely to blossom into full-scale warfare.	This process is known as the Stability-instability paradox, and is perhaps best exemplified by the small wars (small relative to the possibility of a nuclear exchange) that sprang up during the Cold War, such as Vietnam and Korea.
noLabel	Very rarely, refugees have been used and recruited as refugee warriors, and the humanitarian aid directed at refugee relief has very rarely been utilized to fund the acquisition of arms .	Support from a refugee-receiving state has rarely been used to enable refugees to mobilize militarily, enabling conflict to spread across borders .
noLabel	The economic strains caused by the Great Depression had led to many in the German medical establishment to advocate with increasing vigor the idea of selective killings of the "incurable" mentally and physically disabled as a cost-saving measure in order to free up money to care for the curable .	Thus by the time the Nazis had come to power in 1933, a huge boost was given to the already existing tendency in German social policy to save the racially "valuable" while seeking to rid society of the racially "undesirable" . 
noLabel	In regard to films, a notable example is Pasolini's Salò o le 120 giornate di Sodoma, which has twice been banned in Australia, and finally granted approval in April 2010.	The Home Affairs Minister, Brendan O'Connor, asked the Classification Review Board to reassess the decision, however, the review failed to find any fault in the classification, and the film was released in September 2010. 
noLabel	All fighters have primary skills with which they feel most comfortable, but truly elite fighters are often able to incorporate auxiliary styles when presented with a particular challenge.	For example, an out-fighter will sometimes plant his feet and counter punch, or a slugger may have the stamina to pressure fight with his power punches.
noLabel	The "Allocable Share Amendment" ("Amendment") revised the originally enacted escrow statute's refund calculation to remove the reference to the enacting state's "allocable share" of the annual MSA payments.	HN2The amended statute, therefore, now provides that an NPM will be entitled to a refund[t]o the extent that a tobacco product manufacturer establishes that the amount it was required to place into escrow, based on units sold in the state .
noLabel	The Laffer curve is typically represented as a graph which starts at 0% tax, zero revenue, rises to a maximum rate of revenue raised at an intermediate rate of taxation and then falls again to zero revenue at a 100% tax rate.	One potential result of the Laffer curve is that increasing tax rates beyond a certain point will become counterproductive for raising further tax revenue. 
noLabel	Online poker tables commonly offer Texas hold 'em, Omaha, Seven-card stud, razz, HORSE and other game types in both tournament and ring game structures.	Players play against each other rather than the "house", with the card room making its money through "rake" and through tournament fees.
noLabel	Legislation proposed by congressman Lee Terry would place the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in authority over the pipeline and require the commission to approve a permit for construction within 30 days of receiving a new application if the project is deemed safe.	Following the rejection, a hearing by the House Energy and Commerce Committee's energy and power subcommittee was planned for January 25 .
noLabel	In the Case of Proclamations (1611) during the reign of King James I/VI, English common law courts judges emphatically asserted that they possessed the right to determine the limits of the royal prerogative.	Since the Glorious Revolution (1688), which brought co-monarchs Queen Mary II and King William III to power; this interpretation of there being a separate and distinct power of the Judiciary has not been challenged by the Crown.
noLabel	Some of the characteristics of a presidential system (i.e., a strong dominant political figure with an executive answerable to them, not the legislature) can also be found among absolute monarchies, parliamentary monarchies and single party (e.g.	Communist) regimes, but in most cases of dictatorship apply their stated constitutional models in name only and not in political theory or practice. 
noLabel	Pagan gradually grew to absorb its surrounding states until the 1050s–1060s when Anawrahta founded the Pagan Empire, the first ever unification of the Irrawaddy valley and its periphery.	In the 12th and 13th centuries, the Pagan Empire and the Khmer Empire were two main powers in mainland Southeast Asia .
noLabel	The powerful Maria Theresa acquired her right to the throne of the Hapsburg dominions by means of the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713, allowing for female succession - but had to fight the War of the Austrian Succession to secure her right to reign.	Following victories, her husband, Francis Stephen, was chosen as Holy Roman Emperor in 1745, confirming Maria Theresa's status as a European leader.
noLabel	Floating wind farms are similar to a regular wind farm, but the difference is that they float in the middle of the ocean.	Offshore wind farms can be placed in water up to deep, whereas floating wind turbines can float in water up to deep .
noLabel	By the end of 1972, 13 states had a law similar to that of Colorado, while Mississippi allowed abortion in cases of rape or incest only and Alabama and Massachusetts allowed abortions only in cases where the womans's physical health was endangered.	In order to obtain abortions during this period, women would often travel from a state where abortion was illegal to states where it was legal.
noLabel	While focusing domestically on wind-energy generation, Brazil is part of a larger international movement toward wind power as a primary source of energy.	In fact, wind power has seen the highest expansion rate of all available renewable energy sources, with an average growth of 27% per year since 1990, according to the Global Wind Energy Council (GWEC).
noLabel	Various national content rating organizations, such as the Entertainment Software Ratings Board or ESRB in North America, rate software for certain age groups and with certain content warnings.	Some of these organizations are optional industry self-regulation (such as the ESRB), while others are part of national government censorship organizations.
noLabel	Natural history was a major preoccupation in the 18th century, with grand expeditions and the opening of popular public displays in Europe and North America.	By 1900 there were 150 natural history museums in Germany, 250 in Great Britain, 250 in the United States, and 300 in France .
noLabel	Prince Edward County officials refused to obey the court's orders, and on June 17 the district court threatened to have county officials imprisoned .	Prince Edward County officials bowed to the court's authority, and agreed to reopen the county's public schools on June 23, 1964 . 
noLabel	On February 22, 2011, Mourdock announced he is challenging incumbent Richard Lugar in the Republican primary for the 2012 Indiana U.S Senate election.	At the announcement Mourdock stated, “Hoosiers want more than a globe-trotting Senator, they want a Senator who routinely holds town hall meetings not to talk but to listen.
noLabel	Protestants criticize the Catholic Church because it allowed the traditional Roman mysteries and deities of solar monism such as Mithras and Sol Invictus and idol worship back into the church .	They have stated that to conciliate the Pagans to nominal Christianity, the Catholic Church took measures to amalgamate the Christian and Pagan festivals  so pagans would join the church; for example, bringing in the pagan festival of Easter as a substitute for the Pasch or Passover, though no record of annual Christian celebrations existed before the second century .
noLabel	It is estimated 1.2 million students annually dropout of high school in the United States, where high school graduation rates rank 19th in the world .	Reasons are varied and may include: to find work, avoid bullying, family emergency, poor grades, depression, unexpected pregnancy, bad environment, lack of freedom, and boredom from lack of lessons relevant to the world of work.
noLabel	Schaeffer's views influenced conservatives like Jerry Falwell, Tim LaHaye, John W. Whitehead, and although they represent different theological and political ideas, dominionists believe they have a Christian duty to take "control of a sinful secular society", either by putting fundamentalist Christians in office, or by introducing biblical law into the secular sphere .	Social scientists have used the word "dominionism" to refer to adherence to Dominion Theology as well as to the influence in the broader Christian Right of ideas inspired by Dominion Theology . 
noLabel	Collective bargaining consists of the process of negotiation between representatives of a union and employers (generally represented by management, in some countries by an employers' organization) in respect of the terms and conditions of employment of employees, such as wages, hours of work, working conditions and grievance-procedures, and about the rights and responsibilities of trade unions.	The parties often refer to the result of the negotiation as a collective bargaining agreement (CBA) or as a collective employment agreement (CEA).
noLabel	As of 2004, out of the approximately 50 million children who were enrolled in American grade schools, 4.2 million children attend a church affiliated school, which is approximately 1 in 12 students .	Within the Christian religion, for example, one can attend a church affiliated college with the intent of getting a degree in a field associated with religious studies.
noLabel	The people who decide to live by the latter rule are the students which face most problems in their university life and face constant culture shocks, while the students who live by the former rule face less problems and interact more with the domestic students.	They end up increasing their knowledge about the culture which is followed by the domestic students and modify their own culture to inculcate certain aspects from the culture surrounding them in order to help them blend successfully in the society.
noLabel	The measure of ongoing species loss is made more complex by the fact that most of the Earth's species have not been described or evaluated.	Estimates vary greatly on how many species actually exist (estimated range: 3,600,000-111,700,000) to how many have received a species binomial (estimated range: 1.5-8 million) .
noLabel	The NASA assessment concurred with the findings of the Brazilian National Space Research Institute (INPE) with an accurate estimation of 280,000 square kilometers (5%) for the same period .	The following year (1995) deforestation nearly doubled; this has been attributed the accidental fire following El Niño-related drought rather than active logging and the following year showed a major decrease from earlier . 
noLabel	This was later affirmed after a request through the freedom of information act secured access to the full version of a 2000 government report on immigration that had been heavily edited on a previous release .	The Conservative party demanded an independent inquiry into the issue and alleged that the document showed that Labour had overseen a deliberate open-door ­policy on immigration to boost multi-culturalism for political ends. 
noLabel	Decisions by Republican incumbent Peter Fitzgerald and his Democratic predecessor Carol Moseley Braun to not participate in the election resulted in wide-open Democratic and Republican primary contests involving fifteen candidates .	In the March 2004 primary election, Obama won in an unexpected landslide—which overnight made him a rising star within the national Democratic Party, started speculation about a presidential future, and led to the reissue of his memoir, Dreams from My Father .
noLabel	Public service broadcasting in some countries can also heavily depend on advertising as a source of income (up to 40%) .	In the view of critics no media that spreads advertisements can be independent and the higher the proportion of advertising, the higher the dependency.
noLabel	One reason given for these differences is that many early Japanese console RPGs can be seen as forms of interactive manga (Japanese comics) or anime wrapped around Western rule systems at the time .	As a result, Japanese console RPGs differentiated themselves with a stronger focus on scripted narratives and character drama, alongside streamlined gameplay .
noLabel	The population of Iraq was well armed while Saddam Hussein was in power, and this failed to oust him from power.	A caveat to this being that gun ownership was restricted to Sunni Muslims who were part of tribes allied to Saddam, and that Shiite Muslims, Iraqi Kurds, Iraqi Christians were kept disarmed.
noLabel	Now, a public officials seeking to sustain a civil action against a tortfeasor needed to prove by "clear and convincing evidence" actual malice.	The case involved an advertisement published in The New York Times indicating that officials in Montgomery, Alabama had acted violently in suppressing the protests of African-Americans during the civil rights movement.
noLabel	In 2003, Congress passed the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, which led to a lawsuit in the case of Gonzales v. Carhart.	The Court had previously ruled in Stenberg v. Carhart that a state's ban on "partial birth abortion" was unconstitutional because such a ban would not allow for the health of the woman.
noLabel	This is a technique where they advertise an item which is unavailable when the consumer arrives at the store, who is then sold a similar product at higher price.	Note that bait-and-switch is legal in most jurisdictions, provided that they state in the ads that there is a limited supply (sometimes they must list the quantity) and that no rain checks will be offered.
noLabel	In Indian Express v. Union of India, it has been held that the press plays a very significant role in the democratic machinery.	The courts have duty to uphold the freedom of press and invalidate all laws and administrative actions that abridge that freedom.
noLabel	In 2004, #21 Pittsburgh won the Big East with a record of 8-3 and was awarded an automatic bid because they won their conference at the expense of several runner-up teams with much better rankings, such as #5 California, #7 Georgia, and #8 Virginia Tech, that were left out .	In 2008, undefeated #9 Boise State and #11 TCU were left out of the BCS while #19 Virginia Tech, winner of the ACC was given a BCS bowl berth.
noLabel	The physical education curriculum is designed to allow students to experience at least a minimum exposure to the following categories of activities: aquatics, conditioning activities, gymnastics, individual/dual sports, team sports, rhythms, and dance.	Students are encouraged to continue to explore those activities in which they have a primary interest by effectively managing their community resources. 
noLabel	This, arguably has led to uneven development, and further informal forms of social control having to do with culture and imperialism .	A variety of factors, scholars argue, lead to the elimination of cultures, worldviews, and epistemologies, such as "de-linguicization" (replacing native African languages with European ones) and devaluing ontologies that are not explicitly individualistic .
noLabel	Could I forget that the event in St. Peter’s Square took place on the day and at the hour when the first appearance of the Mother of Christ to the poor little peasants has been remembered for over sixty years at Fátima, Portugal?	For in everything that happened to me on that very day, I felt that extraordinary motherly protection and care, which turned out to be stronger than the deadly bullet. 
noLabel	All of the experts on the website are ready to provide quick reactions, give quotes, and share their views with media professionals in response to breaking news events.	More than this, they are eager to help enhance understanding about complex and polarizing issues, and committed to providing a reliable and timely response. 
noLabel	In the Southeast Asia’s “coral triangle” Rare is training fishers in local communities to better manage the areas around the coral reefs in order to lessen human impact.	Such programs last for three years with the aim of changing community attitudes so as to conserve fragile habitats and provide ecological protection for years to come.
noLabel	But over five hours on C-Span 3, the most insightful testimony was provided by Steve Courson, who was a guard from 1978 to 1985 with the Steelers and Buccaneers.	Courson earned two Super Bowl rings with the Steelers, but he has campaigned against steroid use, contending that his serious heart problems stemmed from his steroid use as a player before the N.F.L.
noLabel	This creates strong incentives for voters to vote tactically in the first round as a way of ensuring that at least one of the two candidates who survives to the second round is acceptable to them.	In order to do this it is necessary to vote for one of the three leading candidates in the first round, just as in an election held under the plurality system it is necessary to vote for one of the two leading candidates.
noLabel	In comparing corporate taxes, the Congressional Budget Office found in 2005 that the top statutory tax rate was the third highest among OECD countries behind Japan and Germany.	However, the U.S. ranked 27th lowest of 30 OECD countries in its collection of corporate taxes relative to GDP, at 1.8% vs. the average 2.5% .
noLabel	If international grants are to be used, the government and donors should ensure that funding flows are stable and that procedures are conducive to building capacity.	Debt finance is appropriate when programs benefit future generations by raising their productivity and consequently increasing future tax revenues, or during recessions. 
noLabel	 For example, Eritrea is forced to spend aid money on foreign goods and services to build a network of railways even though it is cheaper to use local expertise and resources .	US law requires food aid be spent on buying food at home, instead of where the hungry live, and, as a result, half of what is spent is used on transport . 
noLabel	Under Conservative Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, Canada and the United States entered into a Free Trade Agreement, since expanded to include Mexico.	However, the relationship between Canada and the United States suffered another serious strain when Canada declined to participate in the Iraq War as part of the military coalition . 
noLabel	Particularly since the rise of "entertaining" advertising, some people may like an advertisement enough to wish to watch it later or show a friend.	In general, the advertising community has not yet made this easy, although some have used the Internet to widely distribute their ads to anyone willing to see or hear them.
noLabel	A school voucher, also called an education voucher, is a certificate issued by the government, which parents can apply toward tuition at a private school (or, by extension, to reimburse home schooling expenses), rather than at the state school to which their child is assigned.	An alternative to the education voucher is the education tax credit, which allows individuals to use their own money to pay for the education of their children or to donate money towards the education of other children. 
noLabel	Congress can borrow money on the credit of the United States, regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the states, and coin money .	Generally, both the Senate and the House of Representatives have equal legislative authority, although only the House may originate revenue and appropriation bills . 
noLabel	that individuals will not engage in crime if they think that this will sacrifice the affection or respect of significant others, or cause them to lose employment or their autonomy if they face imprisonment.	Davies (1994 and 2004) reports that, in the late-nineteenth century Britain, crime rates fell dramatically, as did drug and alcohol abuse, and illegitimacy became less common.
noLabel	The U.S. educational system fails its lower-income students by not providing them with the same access to resources and opportunities as it does to its more affluent students.	Furthermore, several studies have shown that programs such as gifted education and tracking further manage to separate those with higher level skills from those with lower level skills, which often happens to be the rich from the poor.
noLabel	The Convention imposes a specific commitment on parties to eradicate racial segregation and the crime of apartheid within their jurisdictions (Article 3).	Parties are also required to criminalize the incitement of racial hatred (Article 4), to ensure judicial remedies for acts of racial discrimination (Article 6), and to engage in public education to promote understanding and tolerance (Article 7). 
noLabel	The Treaty of Tlatelolco (1967) prohibited any production or deployment of nuclear weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Treaty of Pelindaba (1964) prohibits nuclear weapons in many African countries.	As recently as 2006 a Central Asian Nuclear Weapon Free Zone was established amongst the former Soviet republics of Central Asia prohibiting nuclear weapons. 
noLabel	The new parliamentary session is marked by either the monarch or the Governor-General reading the Speech from the Throne; as the both are traditionally barred from the House of Representatives, this ceremony, as well as the bestowing of Royal Assent, takes place in the Legislative Council Chamber; the monarch has formally opened parliament on five occasions: January 1954, February 1963, March 1970, February 1986, and February 1990.	 Despite the sovereign's exclusion, Members of Parliament must still express their loyalty to her and defer to her authority, as the Oath of Allegiance must be recited by all new parliamentarians before they may take their seat, and the official opposition is traditionally dubbed as Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition.
noLabel	Civil and political rights are enshrined in articles 3 to 21 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR).	Economic, social and cultural rights are enshrined in articles 22 to 28 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) and in the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR).
noLabel	The proximate environment plays a role in the politics of nations that are angry with their circumstances, an individual or group that becomes angry in response to feelings that they are being exploited usually results in efforts to accommodate them, while being passive results in them being ignored .	Nations that are angry with circumstances imposed on them by others are affected by the proximate environment that shapes the nationalism of such nations . 
noLabel	The lack of R18+ and X18+ ratings for games has been the subject of complaint in the gaming community, particularly on the basis that there is no reason why adults should not be able to see content in games that they would see in a film.	One of the main opponents to the introduction of a R18+ rating for video games was the former South Australian Attorney-General Michael Atkinson who has vetoed every attempt to induce one.
noLabel	There is evidence that within the U.S. strong disparities in religious belief versus acceptance of evolution are correlated with similarly varying rates of societal dysfunction, the strongly theistic, anti-evolution south and mid-west having markedly worse homicide, mortality, STD, youth pregnancy, marital and related problems than the northeast where societal conditions, secularization, and acceptance of evolution approach European norms.	An analysis published later in the same journal contends that a number of methodological problems undermine any findings or conclusions to be taken from Paul's research .
noLabel	In open primary elections in the United States, crossover voting refers to a behavior in which voters who normally participate in the primary of one party instead vote in the primary of another party.	The behavior typically happens when the nominee of the one party is a foregone conclusion or when a candidate in one party's primary has an appeal to the voters in another party. 
noLabel	Hutchison's Democratic opponent in the November 2006 general election was former Houston attorney and mediator Barbara Ann Radnofsky (born July 8, 1956), who had not previously run for public office.	Radnofsky received 44 percent of the vote in the primary and won a runoff election against Gene Kelly with 60 percent of the vote.
noLabel	In 1995, the Supreme Court of the United States rendered section 20 of Measure 3, relating to the terms of members of both houses of Congress, invalid under the federal Constitution, ruling that states lacked authority to impose restrictions on the qualifications for federal office.	It was silent on the broader issue of the constitutionality of term limits, nor did it address the matter of state offices, and thus the remaining provisions of Measure 3's amendment of the state Constitution were left in place .
noLabel	As a result, white people are able to dominate when a color blind approach is applied because the common experiences are defined in terms which white people can more easily relate to than blacks .	Insistence on no reference to race, critics argue, means black people can no longer point out the racism they face . 
noLabel	A reply is that God wanted man to have free will which makes this another example of the free will argument .	Some have wondered whether free-agency, or the loving relationships to which it is thought to be necessary, constitutes a good large enough to justify the evil it brings in its wake. 
noLabel	A newer phenomenon of withholding content from the game and then releasing it at a later date for additional funds not factored into the retail price began with digital video game distribution known as Downloadable Content (also known colloquially as 'DLC').	Studios may choose to utilize this to issue original content after the game is released, such as Rockstar Games with Grand Theft Auto IV, or Bethesda with Fallout 3, yet often opt instead to create content before the game is released to be intentionally withheld, such as Activision and Treyarch with Call of Duty (Despite knowing well public affection for a 'Zombies' game mode, it was shipped with only one map for this game mode, and periodically releases new ones with $10 DLC) .
noLabel	The number of foreign nationals who became legal permanent residents (LPRs) of the U.S. in 2009 as a result of family reunification (66 percent) outpaced those who became LPRs on the basis of employment skills (13 percent) and humanitarian reasons (17 percent) .	Since World War II, more refugees have found homes in the U.S. than any other nation and more than two million refugees have arrived in the U.S. since 1980.
noLabel	" Further enhancements can apply if the offender evidenced an intent to carry out the threat (6-level enhancement); made more than two threats (2-level enhancement); caused substantial disruption of public, governmental, or business functions or services (4-level enhancement); or created a substantial risk of inciting others to harm federal officials (2-level enhancement) .	Since each 6-level increase approximately doubles the Guidelines sentencing range, it is not particularly rare for an offender who threatens the President to receive a sentence at or near the maximum, especially if he has a criminal history and/or does not qualify for a reduction for acceptance of responsibility.
noLabel	Flights of stairs and landings are generally designated common areas, and residents traditionally took turns to sweep clean the floors, and in Aberdeen in particular, took turns to make use of shared laundry facilities in the "back green" (garden or yard).	It is now more common for cleaning of the common ways to be contracted out through a managing agent or "factor". 
noLabel	Malaysia prevents insult to religion and to the religious by education, by restrictions upon the broadcasting and publishing media, and by the legal system.	Some states in the Malaysian federation operate Sharia courts to protect Islam, and, when Sharia is not applicable, the Malaysian Penal Code provides penalties for offenses against religion .
noLabel	In 2009, Simon Sheppard and Stephen Whittle were sentenced to prison time for publishing material that was likely to incite racial and religious hatred.	They had tried to escape to the United States but were not granted political asylum and were deported back to the UK .
noLabel	There is an optional year in many secondary schools in Ireland known as Transition Year, which some students choose to take after completing the Junior Certificate, and before starting the Leaving Certificate.	Focusing on broadening horizons, the year is often structured around student projects such as producing a magazine, charity work, running a small business, etc.
noLabel	In all circumstances, it should be her decision whether or not to terminate a pregnancy, backed up by those whom she trusts (physician, therapist, partner, etc.).	This decision should not be taken lightly (abortion should never be used for birth control purposes) and can have life-long ramifications.
noLabel	Scottish immigration staff also covered the airports at Dyce and Leuchars, (which played their part as terminals for the dangerous Mosquito service to Stockholm), and found themselves occasionally giving a reception to escaped resistance fighters arriving in the Shetland Islands.	In the first six months of 1940 Scottish immigration officers examined almost 4000 survivors from upwards of 100 ships sunk by enemy action. 
noLabel	A large wind farm may consist of several hundred individual wind turbines which are connected to the electric power transmission network.	Offshore wind power can harness the better wind speeds that are available offshore compared to on land, so offshore wind power’s contribution in terms of electricity supplied is higher .
noLabel	Having collated all necessary information the caseworker would then be able to assess the case and submit a proposal up though the numerous levels of Civil Service management to the Home Secretary.	The Deportation Order would then be personally signed by the Home Secretary, served by an immigration officer and the Immigration Service would make arrangements for the person’s departure, (provided that they could prove who he was, what nationality he was, could obtain a travel document and overcome any appeal rights and other barriers). 
noLabel	Wages for Israeli teachers are low compared to other industrialized countries, especially due to the small amount of frontal teaching hours with respect to other developed countries (The salary per hour is similar to that of the OECD standards), according to a survey of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.	The government-appointed Dovrat Commission, led by Shlomo Dovrat, concluded in 2004, that the key to improving Israeli education is not more money but better-quality teaching.
noLabel	The heat can also be used for industrial process applications or as an energy input for other uses such as cooling equipment .	In many warmer climates, a solar heating system can provide a very high percentage (50 to 75%) of domestic hot water energy.
noLabel	Palin criticized President Obama for committing $2 billion to Egypt's new government as part of a $20 billion aid package pledged at the 37th G8 summit to Arab Spring states .	She noted Egypt's "history of corruption when it comes to utilizing American aid" and the possibility of the Muslim Brotherhood taking the reins of Egypt's government.
noLabel	At present, the medical literature on the health, including sexual health, implications of circumcision is contradictory, and often subject to claims of bias in research.” As a general rule, the BMA believe that "parents should be entitled to make choices about how best to promote their children’s interests, and it is for society to decide what limits should be imposed on parental choices."	They also state that "both parents [..] must give consent for non-therapeutic circumcision", and that parents and children should be provided with up-to-date written information about the risks involved . 
noLabel	However, almost all experts, including some of Brown-Sequard's contemporaries, had agreed that these positive effects were induced by Brown-Séquard himself .	In 2002, a study replicating Brown-Séquard's method determined that the amount of testosterone obtained was too low to have any clinical effect . 
noLabel	Republic of Ireland: A January 2010 Irish Examiner/RedC poll about abortion in Ireland found that 60% of 18-35 year olds felt abortion should be legalised, and 10% had been in a relationship in which an abortion had taken place .	A January 2010 opinion|poll conducted by Millward Brown Landsdown for the Pro Life Campaign found 70% of people questioned favored constitutional protection for the unborn under circumstances where intervention to save the mother's life was legal .
noLabel	Obesity is a leading preventable cause of death worldwide, with increasing prevalence in adults and children, and authorities view it as one of the most serious public health problems of the 21st&nbsp;century .	Obesity is stigmatized in much of the modern world (particularly in the Western world), though it was widely perceived as a symbol of wealth and fertility at other times in history, and still is in some parts of the world .
noLabel	They will ask questions such as "If you knew that Candidate Smith was being investigated for corruption, would you be more likely to vote for him, or less likely?"	The question doesn't state that any investigation has taken place, so it is not a lie, but it serves to imply that Candidate Smith is corrupt. 
noLabel	Instead, the 'Gandhi Plan', put forward in 1988, proposed the revision of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, which it regards as inherently discriminatory in favor of the nuclear-weapon States, and a timetable for complete nuclear weapons disarmament.	It endorsed early proposals for a Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty and for an international convention to ban the production of highly enriched uranium and plutonium for weapons purposes, known as the 'cut-off' convention. 
noLabel	The Global Centre for Pluralism is an international initiative of His Highness the Aga Khan, 49th hereditary Imam of Ismaili Muslims, and was established jointly with the Government of Canada in 2006 .	Located in the old Canadian War Museum building along Ottawa's Sussex Drive, the Centre draws inspiration from the Canadian experience .
noLabel	Flake was first elected to what was then in 2000, after Republican incumbent Matt Salmon stepped down in honor of a self-imposed term limit.	The district was then renumbered to the 6th district as Arizona gained two Congressional seats due to the results of the 2000 census. 
noLabel	A common finding across numerous studies is that on average, students score lower on standardized tests at the end of the summer than they do at the beginning of summer (on the same test).	Summer loss for all students is estimated to be equal to about 1 month (Cooper 1996), but this varies across subject matter:
noLabel	As the process continued, more features were added to the Charter, including equality rights for people with disabilities, more sex equality guarantees and recognition of Canada's multiculturalism.	The limitations clause was also reworded to focus less on the importance of parliamentary government and more on justifiability of limits in free societies; the latter logic was more in line with rights developments around the world after World War II . 
noLabel	Some evidence indicates that a head injury may interact with other factors to trigger the disease and may hasten the onset of the disease in individuals already at risk.	For example, head-injured people who have a particular form of the protein apolipoprotein E (apoE4, a naturally occurring protein that helps transport cholesterol through the bloodstream) fall into this increased risk category . 
noLabel	‘Zones of transition’ refer to deteriorating neighbourhoods with shifting populations - conflict between groups, fighting, 'turf wars,' and theft promotes solidarity and cohesion .	Cohen (1955): working class teenagers joined gangs due to frustration of inability to achieve status and goals of the middle class; Cloward and Ohlin (1960): blocked opportunity, but unequal distribution of opportunities lead to creating different types of gangs (that is, some focused on robbery and property theft, some on fighting and conflict and some were retreatists focusing on drug taking); Spergel (1966) was one of the first criminologists to focus on ‘evidence-based practice’ rather than intuition into gang life and culture.
noLabel	Donohue and Levitt respond to each point that Joyce makes in a reply paper and conclude that none of Joyce's arguments cast doubt on the original hypothesis presented in their 2001 paper.	They also introduce an updated version of their dataset which had better measures of abortion (given to them by Stanley Henshaw of the Alan Guttmacher Institute after their initial paper was published).
noLabel	The Bill of Rights plays a key role in American law and government, and remains a vital symbol of the freedoms and culture of the nation.	One of the first fourteen copies of the Bill of Rights is on public display at the National Archives in Washington, D.C. .
noLabel	Historically, most incidents and writings pertaining to toleration involve the status of minority and dissenting viewpoints in relation to a dominant state religion.	In the twentieth century and after, analysis of the doctrine of toleration has been expanded to include political and ethnic groups, homosexuals and other minorities, and human rights embodies the principle of legally enforced toleration.
noLabel	The government of New Zealand is defined by the constitution as the Queen acting on the advice of her Executive Council.	 One of the main duties of the Crown is to ensure that a democratically elected government is always in place, which means appointing a prime minister to thereafter head the Cabineta committee of the Executive Council charged with advising the Crown on the exercise of the Royal Prerogative, and legally required to keep the Governor-General up to date on state affairs.
noLabel	Plants and trees absorb potassium as part of the normal biological process, but will also readily absorb caesium if present, being of the same group on the periodic table, and therefore very similar chemically.	Islanders consuming contaminated coconut milk were found to have abnormally high concentrations of caesium in their bodies and then had to be evacuated from the atoll a second time .
noLabel	An Obama administration statement disputed the self-reported status of WikiLeaks, stating that it "is not an objective news outlet but rather an organization that opposes U.S. policy in Afghanistan.	" Journalist Will Heaven of The Daily Telegraph has said that WikiLeaks was not politically neutral when it fed its information to the left-leaning newspapers The Guardian, The New York Times, and Der Spiegel instead of releasing the data openly.
noLabel	After World War II, the balance of power between the Eastern and Western blocs and the fear of global destruction prevented the further military use of atomic bombs.	This fear was even a central part of Cold War strategy, referred to as the doctrine of Mutually Assured Destruction ("MAD" for short).
noLabel	Meritocracy as a concept spread from China to British India during the 17th century, and then into continental Europe and the United States .	With the translation of Confucian texts during the Enlightenment, the concept of a meritocracy reached intellectuals in the West, who saw it as an alternative to the traditional ancient regime of Europe .
noLabel	In 2007, Quebec's Minister for Intergovernmental Affairs, Benoît Pelletier, expressed his opinion that it was "not impossible that we might have to reconsider the role of the monarch, the lieutenant governor, and the governor general..	I'm not saying that the monarchy must be abolished, but it will take some thought, especially on its usefulness and relevance . 
noLabel	"Qualified privilege" may be available to the journalist as a defense in circumstances where it is considered important that the facts be known in the public interest; an example would be public meetings, local government documents, and information relating to public bodies such as the police and fire departments.	Qualified privilege has the same effect as absolute privilege, but does not protect statements that can be proven to have been made with malicious intent.
noLabel	The names for all three atomic bomb design projects during WW II ("Fat Man", "Thin Man", and "Little Boy") were allegedly created by Robert Serber, a former student of Los Alamos director Robert Oppenheimer who worked on the project, according to Serber.	According to his later memoirs, he chose them based on their design shapes; the "Thin Man" would be a very long device, and the name came from the Dashiell Hammett detective novel and series of movies by the same name; the "Fat Man" bomb would be round and fat and was named after Sidney Greenstreet's "Kasper Gutman" character in The Maltese Falcon.
noLabel	Censorship in the People's Republic of China (PRC) is implemented or mandated by the PRC's ruling party, the Communist Party of China (CPC).	Notable censored subjects include but are not limited to, democracy, the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Falun Gong, ethnic independence movements, corruption, police brutality, anarchism, Body shape, gossip, disparity of wealth, food safety, pornography, news sources that report on these issues, religious content, and many other websites . 
noLabel	"There were forty-eight strikes in 1936 in which the strikers remained at their jobs for at least one day; in twenty-two of these work stoppages, involving 34,565 workers, the strikers stayed inside the plants for more than twenty-four hours.	" This tactic was called a "sit-down" strike which entailed workers to stop doing their job and sit in their place of employment.
noLabel	One union leader who closely observed the experiences of the ARU was Big Bill Haywood, who became the powerful secretary treasurer of the Western Federation of Miners (WFM).	Haywood had long been a critic of the craft unionism of the AFL, and applied the industrial unionism critique to the railway brotherhoods — closely associated as they were with the AFL — in a strike called by his own miner's union. 
noLabel	Obama said, "Let me say this as plainly as I can: By August 31, 2010, our combat mission in Iraq will end.	" The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010, decreasing troops levels from 142,000 while leaving a transitional force of 35,000 to 50,000 in Iraq until the end of 2011.
noLabel	According to the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, between 2005 and 2008 116 Israelis, including civilians and Israeli security forces, which includes Israeli police, Israeli Border Police and members of the armed services, were killed in both Israel and the Palestinian Territories in "direct conflict related incidents" and 1,509 were injured .	During this time, 1,735 Palestinians, including civilians and militants from various groups, were killed and 8,308 wounded in "direct conflict related incidents" .
noLabel	Today, most governments recognize the importance of public health programs in reducing the incidence disease, disability, and the effects of aging and other physical and mental health conditions, although public health generally receives significantly less government funding compared with medicine .	In recent years, public health programs providing vaccinations have made incredible strides in promoting health, including the eradication of smallpox, a disease that plagued humanity for thousands of years. 
noLabel	This article examines the relationship between premarital sexual activity and the long-term risk of divorce among U.S. women married between 1965 and 1985.	Simple cross-tabulations from the 1988 National Survey of Family Growth indicate that women who were sexually active prior to marriage faced a considerably higher risk of marital disruption than women who were virgin brides.
noLabel	Software distributions considered as proprietary may in fact incorporate a "mixed source" model including both free and non-free software in the same distribution .	Most if not all so-called proprietary UNIX distributions are mixed source software, bundling open source components like BIND, Sendmail, X Window System, DHCP, and others along with a purely proprietary kernel and system utilities . 
noLabel	Structural Functionalism: Also known as a social systems paradigm, sees society as a complex system whose parts work together to promote solidarity and stability .	This theory focuses on how it is essential that elements of a society work together in order to function fully as a whole .
noLabel	The game does not offer split screen or local area network (LAN) multiplayer modes on PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360, but there is LAN on the PC mode.	Up to 16 (32 on PC) players can play together, doing a variety of games including Death Match, Cops 'n' Crooks, races, Deal Breaker, and Mafiya Work as well as team varieties of Death Match, and Mafiya Work to name just a few. 
noLabel	In September 2005, the IAEA Board of Governors, in a rare non-consensus decision with 12 abstentions, recalled a previous Iranian "policy of concealment" regarding its enrichment program and found that Iran had violated its NPT Safeguards Agreement .	Another IAEA report stated "there is no evidence that the previously undeclared nuclear material and activities .. were related to a nuclear weapons program.
noLabel	While the monetary value of the transfer is relatively low (US$ 22 PPP 2003 per family per month), the program aims at inserting families into the wider safety net through a tailored plan of conditionalities.	Similarly, Bolsa-Família in Brazil seeks to promote local synergies by linking the beneficiaries to preferential housing, micro-credit and local business development, and Oportunidades in Mexico piloted various expansions to the basic 
noLabel	Around the peak of global tobacco production there were 20 million rural Chinese households producing tobacco on 2.1 million hectares of land .	While it is the major crop for millions of Chinese farmers, growing tobacco, is not as profitable as cotton or sugar cane.
noLabel	As a result, these Patriots established independent colonial legislatures to create their own militias that excluded the Loyalists and then sought out to stock up independent armories for their militias.	In response to this arms build up, the British Parliament established an embargo on firearms, parts and ammunition on the American colonies . 
noLabel	Self-censorship is when an individual censors and/or classifies his/her own speech to avoid offending others, and without authority requiring them to do so.	But, especially in some authoritarian countries, the fear of secret police organizations and possible government backlash against individuals may result in an indirect suppression of dissent via self-censorship.
noLabel	The ratified constitution created a federal structure with two overlapping power centers so that each citizen as an individual was subjected to both the power of state government and the national government .	To protect against abuse of power, each branch of government—executive, legislative, and judicial—had a separate sphere of authority and could check other branches according to the principle of the separation of powers .
noLabel	McNamara left the Defense Department in February 1968 and his successor Clark M. Clifford received the finished study on 15 January 1969, five days before Richard Nixon's inauguration - although Clifford claimed he never read it.	The study comprised 3,000 pages of historical analysis and 4,000 pages of original government documents in 47 volumes, and was classified as "Top Secret - Sensitive".
noLabel	In October 2010, Angela Merkel told a meeting of younger members of her conservative Christian Democratic Union (CDU) party at Potsdam, near Berlin, that attempts to build a multicultural society in Germany had "utterly failed", stating: "The concept that we are now living side by side and are happy about it does not work"., She continued to say that immigrants should integrate and adopt Germany's culture and values.	This has added to a growing debate within Germany on the levels of immigration, its effect on Germany and the degree to which Muslim immigrants have integrated into German society.
noLabel	Antony Lerman believes that many attacks on Jewish critics of Israel are "vitriolic, ad hominem and indiscriminate" and claims that anti-Zionism and anti-Semitism have been defined too broadly and without reason .	Lerman also states that the "redefinition" of anti-Semitism to include anti-Zionism has caused Jews to attack other Jews, because many Jews are leaders in several anti-Zionist organizations . 
noLabel	An analysis of firearms trace data by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) over the past three years shows that weapons are being traced to dealers in virtually every state, as far north as Washington state, and that Texas, Arizona and California are the three most prolific source states, respectively, for firearms subsequently illegally trafficked to Mexico .	Since 1996, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) has traced more than 62,000 firearms smuggled into Mexico from the United States .
noLabel	The six items pertaining to households were type (domestic or collective), serial number, number of persons, number of births in 1981, number of deaths in 1981, and number of registered persons absent for more than one year.	Information was gathered in a number of important areas for which previous data were either extremely inaccurate or simply nonexistent, including fertility, marital status, urban population, minority ethnic groups, sex composition, age distribution, and employment and unemployment. 
noLabel	The two largest predictors of juvenile delinquency are parenting style, particularly low parental monitoring, meaning parents don’t know for one reason or another what the child is doing and the child is often unsupervised, and peer groups, particularly associating with antisocial peer groups, which tends to happen when adolescents are left unsupervised.	Other factors that may lead a teenager into juvenile delinquency include, poor or low socio-economic status, poor school readiness/performance and/or failure, peer rejection, hyperactivity, or attention deficit disorder (ADHD).
noLabel	The first category, collectively known as rights-based arguments, consist of Second Amendment arguments, state constitution arguments, right of self-defense arguments, and security against tyranny and invasion arguments.	Public policy arguments, the second category of arguments, revolve around the importance of a militia, the reduction of gun violence and firearm deaths, and also can include arguments regarding security against foreign invasions.
noLabel	A number of these scenarios actually occured during the Cold War, though none resulted in the use of nuclear weapons .	Many such scenarios have been depicted in popular culture, such as in the 1962 novel Fail-Safe (released as a film in 1964), and the film Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, also released in 1964.
noLabel	|- Qatar has condemned the attacks on the Gaza Strip, and has arranged for an extraordinary Arab League summit to be held in Doha on 2 January to discuss a unified Arab stance against the operation .	Qatar sent two planes with medicine and food to al-Arish in Egypt for Gaza .On January 16, Qatar suspended economic and diplomatic ties with Israel .
noLabel	ThyssenKrupp Atlantic Steel Company (TKCSA), one of the largest private enterprises in Latin America, sues Brazilian researches from public universities as UERJ (Rio de Janeiro State University) and Fiocruz (Oswaldo Cruz Foundation) for moral damages .	First, TKCSA sued the researcher pulmonologist, Hermano Albuquerque de Castro from Sergio Arouca National School of Public Health (ENSP – Fiocruz).
noLabel	In the United States, the nonpartisan blanket primary, introduced in Louisiana for partisan state elections in 1975 and federal elections in 1978 (with a short return to a closed primary system in 2010), is virtually identical to the two-round system.	Taking the standard American system of primary elections to choose each party's candidate followed by a general election wherein the winners of the primaries face off, the primary is "opened" to all voters to vote for whichever candidate they choose for each office, regardless of party affiliation.
noLabel	On July 16, 2008, the Mexican Navy intercepted a 10-meter long narco submarine travelling about 200 kilometers off the southwest of Oaxaca; in a raid, Special Forces rappelled from a helicopter onto the deck of the submarine and arrested four smugglers before they could scuttle their vessel.	The vessel was found to be loaded with 5.8 tons of cocaine and was towed to Huatulco, Oaxaca, by a Mexican Navy patrol boat . 
noLabel	In U.s. v. Patillo, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit held that a threat to the President could lead to a verdict of guilty "only if made with the present intention to do injury to the President" .	Specifically, the court opined that "The word [willfully] often denotes an act which is intentional, or knowing, or voluntary, as distinguished from accidental.
noLabel	In November 2009, a poll by Angus Reid found that the majority two-thirds of Canadians would like to see a Canadian serving as Canada's head of state, while 18% disagreed.	Only a minority 27% preferred Canada to remain a monarchy, while the plurality 43% preferred Canada to have an elected head of state .
noLabel	Minority rights cover protection of existence, protection from discrimination and persecution, protection and promotion of identity, and participation in political life.	For the rights of LGBT, The Yogyakarta Principles have been approved by the United Nations Human Rights Council and for the rights of persons with disabilities, the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was adopted by United Nations General Assembly. 
noLabel	This is in addition to the 10,000 green cards allocated for each year until then and was meant to speed up the green card waiting time considerably for asylees.	However, the issue was rendered somewhat moot by the enactment of the REAL ID Act of 2005 (Division B of United States Public Law 109-13 (H.R.
noLabel	Since, however, teams from non-AQ conferences play what are considered generally easier schedules than teams from AQ conferences, it is unclear whether this "bias" is merely a penalty based on schedule strength that can also apply to AQ conference teams (see, e.g., the 2007 Kansas team, above).	A rejoinder would be that teams from non-BCS conferences only have so much control over their schedules, creating the possibility that such a team might in fact be one of the two best teams in the country, and might also have made a good-faith effort to play a challenging schedule, but might still be excluded from the national championship game.
noLabel	Designated lead agencies at the global level both participate directly in operations, but also coordinate with and oversee other organizations within their specific spheres, reporting the results up through a designated chain of command to the ERC at the summit.	However, lead agencies are responsible as ‘providers of last resort’, which represents the commitment of cluster leads to do their utmost to ensure an adequate and appropriate response in their respective areas of responsibility.
noLabel	" The U.S. mission also issued a floor document, "Observations of the United States with respect to the Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples", setting out its objections to the Declaration.	Most of these are based on the same points as the three other countries' rejections but, in addition, the United States drew attention to the Declaration's failure to provide a clear definition of exactly whom the term "indigenous peoples" is intended to cover . 
noLabel	“In the Continental European System of labour market regulation, the government plays an important role as there is a strong legislative core of employee rights, which provides the basis for agreements as well as a framework for discord between unions on one side and employers or employers’ associations on the other.	This model was said to be found in EU core countries such as Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Italy, and it is also mirrored and emulated to some extent in the institutions of the EU, due to the relative weight that these countries had in the EU until the EU expansion by the inclusion of 10 new Eastern European member states in 2004. 
noLabel	Use of these drugs may lead to criminal penalty in addition to possible physical, social, and psychological harm, both strongly depending on local jurisdiction .	Other definitions of drug abuse fall into four main categories: public health definitions, mass communication and vernacular usage, medical definitions, and political and criminal justice definitions. 
noLabel	The common law offence of blasphemous libel was effectively replaced in 2009 by a new offence of "publication or utterance of blasphemous matter".	The continued existence of a blasphemy offence is controversial, with proponents of freedom of speech and freedom of religion arguing it should be removed.
noLabel	Employment Equity also forms part of a company's Black Economic Empowerment scorecard: in a relatively complex scoring system, which allows for some flexibility in the manner in which each company meets its legal commitments, each company is required to meet minimum requirements in terms of representation by previously disadvantaged groups.	The matters covered include equity ownership, representation at employee and management level (up to board of director level), procurement from black-owned businesses and social investment programs, amongst others. 
noLabel	His cloture vote came after the measure was amended to permit states to opt out of allowing insurance exchange plans to provide abortion coverage.	Persons enrolling in plans that covered abortion costs would pay for that coverage separately from their payment for the rest of the plan . 
noLabel	Simultaneously, while communicable diseases have historically ranged uppermost as a global health priority, non-communicable diseases and the underlying behavior-related risk factors have been at the bottom.	This is changing however, as illustrated by the United Nations hosting its first General Assembly Special Summit on the issue of non-communicable diseases in September 2011 .
noLabel	At issue in Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten was the federal Espionage Act of 1917, which prohibited citizens from counseling or advising violation of the law.	The Court found that the New York postmaster's refusal to allow circulation of an antiwar journal under the statute violated the First Amendment.
noLabel	A US cotton farmer may receive US$230 in government subsidies per acre planted (in 2003), while farmers in Mali and other third-world countries do without.	When prices decline, the heavily subsidized US farmer is not forced to reduce his output, making it difficult for cotton prices to rebound, but his Mali counterpart may go broke in the meantime. 
noLabel	SPMs joining the MSA after this ninety-day exempt period must, instead, make annual payments based upon all of the SPM's national cigarette sales for a given year.	In addition to its annual payment obligations, in order [**9] to join the MSA now, a non-exempt SPM must, "within a reasonable time after signing the" MSA, pay the amount it would have been obligated to pay under the MSA during the time between the MSA's effective date and the date on which the SPM joined the agreement . 
noLabel	Criminologist Philip J. Cook hypothesizes that if guns were less available, criminals may likely commit the crime anyway but with less-lethal weapons .	He finds that the level of gun ownership in the 50 largest U.S. cities correlates with the rate of robberies committed with guns, but not overall robbery rates .
noLabel	In 2008, the University of Utah was excluded from the BCS championship for a second time despite being the only undefeated Division I-A team at the end of the season and finished second behind 13–1 Florida.	In 2009, five schools finished the regular season undefeated: Alabama, Texas, Cincinnati, Texas Christian University, and Boise State; however, the BCS selected traditional powers Alabama and Texas to participate in the BCS National Championship Game as they were the top two teams in the BCS rankings. 
noLabel	In a March 2, 2011 interview, when asked whether the government should provide financial aid to a poor student with good grades who wants to further his education, Paul responded that no, the government should not because “nobody has a right to someone else's wealth.	You have a right to your life and you have a right to your property but you don't have a – education isn't a right.
noLabel	The main opposition party National League for Democracy was re-registered for the by-elections on 13 December 2011 as part of the reforms in Burma since 2010.	NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi ran in the seat of Kawhmu, which she won and her party won in 40 of the 44 seats they contested (out of 45) .
noLabel	The rollers keep the tobacco moist — especially the wrapper — and use specially designed crescent-shaped knives, called chavetas, to form the filler and wrapper leaves quickly and accurately.	Once rolled, the cigars are stored in wooden forms as they dry, in which their uncapped ends are cut to a uniform size.
noLabel	The same year, a front page story in the Chicago Tribune implied that the U.S. had broken Japanese codes, which might have prompted the Japanese to change their codes and any advantage the U.S. had gained.	The newspaper was brought before a Grand Jury, but proceedings were halted because of government reluctance to present a jury with highly secret information necessary to prosecute the publishers as well as concern that a trial would attract more attention to the case . 
noLabel	Under runoff voting this tactic, known as 'compromising', is sometimes unnecessary because, even if a voter's favourite candidate is eliminated in the first round, she will still have an opportunity to influence the result of the election by voting for a more popular candidate in the second round.	However the tactic of compromising can still be used in runoff voting because it is sometimes necessary to compromise as a way of influencing which two candidates will survive to the second round.
noLabel	Devah Pager, a sociologist at Princeton University, sent matched pairs of applicants to apply for jobs in Milwaukee and New York City, finding that black applicants received callbacks or job offers at half the rate of equally qualified whites .	In contrast, institutions and courts have upheld discrimination against whites when it is done to promote a diverse work or educational environment, even when it was shown to be to the detriment of qualified applicants .
noLabel	The Edict of Nantes was revoked in 1685 by King Louis XIV with the Edict of Fontainebleau, leading to renewed persecution of Protestants in France.	Although strict enforcement of the revocation was relaxed during the reign of Louis XV, it was not until 102 years later, in 1787, when Louis XVI signed the Edict of Versailles – known as the Edict of Tolerance – that civil status and rights to form congregations by Protestants were restored .
noLabel	The Washington State Legislature passed a new primary system in 2004, which would have created a nonpartisan blanket or "Top Two" primary system, with an Open primary as a backup, giving the Governor the option to choose.	Although Secretary of State Sam Reed advocated the Top Two, on April 1, 2004 the Governor used the line-item veto to activate the Open primary instead.
noLabel	For example, in a precinct where Gregoire won 60% of the vote, it would have been assumed that she received 60% of the illegal vote as well, and those votes would be subtracted from her total for the precinct.	The Democrats countered that the Republicans' proposal was statistically invalid, an example of the ecological fallacy, and the best solution would be to call each of the felons into court and ask them to swear under oath which political candidate they voted for, after which time their vote would be removed from the total. 
noLabel	Run-of-the-river hydroelectricity is ideal for streams or rivers with a minimum dry weather flow or those regulated by a much larger dam and reservoir upstream .	A dam, smaller than that used for traditional hydro, is required to ensure that there is enough water to enter the "penstock" pipes that lead to the lower-elevation turbines .
noLabel	In the Chinese case, public officials are both rent-generators and rent-seekers, both making rent opportunities for others and seeking such opportunities to benefit themselves.	This may include profiteering by officials or official firms, extortion in the form of illicit impositions, fees, and other charges . 
noLabel	In declining to hear the case, the Commission stated that Al-Hayiti was free to make comments against "infidels" because they are not an identifiable group.	Regarding Al-Hayiti's statements against groups established as "identifiable," such as homosexuals and Jews, the commission simply stated that these "do not seem" to meet the criteria for promoting hatred . 
noLabel	Cargill, a multinational company which controls the majority of the soya bean trade in Brazil has been criticized along with fast food chains like Mcdonalds by active groups such as Greenpeace for speeding up the process of the deforestation of the Amazon.	Cargill is the main supplier of soya beans to large fast food companies such as McDonalds which uses the soya products to feed their cattle and chickens.
noLabel	There are several circuits within the hypothalamus that contribute to its role in integrating appetite, the melanocortin pathway being the most well understood .	The circuit begins with an area of the hypothalamus, the arcuate nucleus, that has outputs to the lateral hypothalamus (LH) and ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH), the brain's feeding and satiety centers, respectively . 
noLabel	" With market uncertainty due to fears of a double-dip recession and the downgrade of the US credit rating in the summer of 2011, the topics of how much the rich pay in taxes and how to solve the nation's economic crisis were predominant in media commentary .	When Congress returned from break, proposed policy solutions came from both major parties as the 2012 Republican presidential debates occurred almost simultaneously with President Obama's September 9 proposal of the American Jobs Act.
noLabel	in a crowded movie theater (This example was authored in Schenck v. United States, but still passes the "imminent lawless action" test).	The trend since Holmes's time has been to restrict the clear and present danger exception to apply to speech which is completely apolitical in content.
noLabel	In his first encyclical, Deus Caritas Est, he said that a human being, created in the image of God who is love, is able to practice love: to give himself to God and others (agape), by receiving and experiencing God's love in contemplation.	This life of love, according to him, is the life of the saints such as Teresa of Calcutta and the Blessed Virgin Mary, and is the direction Christians take when they believe that God loves them in Jesus Christ . 
noLabel	By the time of the 1987 World Championships, Johnson had won his four previous races with Lewis and had established himself as the best 100 m sprinter.	At Rome, Johnson gained instant world fame and confirmed this status when he beat Lewis for the title, setting a new world record of 9.83 seconds as well, beating Calvin Smith's former record by a full tenth of a second. 
noLabel	The other top desired destination countries (those where an estimated 25 million or more adults would like to go) were predominantly European.	A percentage of respondents representing forty-five million adults named the United Kingdom or France as their desired destination, followed in order of preference by Spain, Germany, Saudi Arabia and Australia. 
noLabel	Congress and the President allocated $80 million to support charter-school activities in fiscal year 1998, up from $51 million in 1997.	Despite the possibility of additional private and non-district funding, a government study showed that charter school may still lag behind traditional public school achievement . 
noLabel	Insurance companies from all over the world, including ones from countries with economic sanctions against the regime, help to insure foreign companies in Burma that provide vital income to the regime.	Money made from these foreign companies will not go to the starving people, it will be used to fund the military machine that oppresses the people.
noLabel	In September 1940, Captain Witold Pilecki, a member of the Polish underground and a soldier of the Home Army, worked out a plan to enter Auschwitz and volunteered to be sent there, the only known person to volunteer to be imprisoned at Auschwitz.	He organized an underground network Związek Organizacji Wojskowej (translation: "Union of Military Organizations") that was ready to initiate an uprising but it was decided that the probability of success was too low for the uprising to succeed.
noLabel	So whilst the further development of middle-income countries, and in particular the tackling of rural poverty in these countries, can be achieved most importantly through increased market access in agriculture, lower-income countries need additional help, not only to take advantage of new opportunities, but to be able to adapt to changing conditions due to the loss of preferences.	This additional help must take three main forms: support for developing-country agricultural production; support for participation in trade; and support for good policies and good governance.
noLabel	The publication of the encyclical marks the first time in the twentieth century that open dissent from the laity about teachings of the Church was voiced widely and publicly.	The teaching has been criticized by development organizations and others who claim that it limits the methods available to fight worldwide population growth and struggle against AIDS.
noLabel	In many public schools, years 10 through 12 will finish before December 15, allowing time to complete exam marking and results.	Year 10 commonly finishes at the end of November, Year 11 at the end of October, and year 12 also at the end of October after 3 weeks of end-of-year exams.
noLabel	The indulgent attitude taken towards cultural differences is perhaps a side effect of the vexed histories of French-English and Aboriginal-settler relations, which have created a need for a civic national identity, as opposed to one based on some homogenous cultural ideal.	On the other hand, concerns have been raised of the danger that "ethnic nationalism will trump civic nationalism" and that Canada will leap "from colony to post-national cosmopolitan" without giving Canadians a fair chance of ever finding a centre of gravity or certain sense of Canadian identity . 
noLabel	This is where businesses that are not able to employ the Australian Apprentice for the full period until they qualify, are able to lease or hire the Australian Apprentice from a Group Training Organisation.	It is a safety net, because the Group Training Organisation is the employer and provides continuity of employment and training for the Australian Apprentice . 
noLabel	Perhaps the most notable example was the Marshall Plan by which the United States, largely successfully, sought to pull European nations toward capitalism and away from communism.	Aid to underdeveloped countries has sometimes been criticized as being more in the interest of the donor than the recipient, or even a form of neocolonialism .
noLabel	Despite its complexity, the system had certain desirable properties such as being hard to game and ensuring that the winner reflected the opinions of both majority and minority factions .	This process, with slight modifications, was central to the politics of the Republic of Venice throughout its remarkable lifespan of over 500 years, from 1268 to 1797.
noLabel	Further, the definitions are volitionally separable because those sections were not of critical importance to passage of the act and the legislative body would have adopted the act had it foreseen the partial invalidation of the statute .	These definition sections were only included to try and avoid the a court ruling them unconstitutionally vague so the legislature would still have enacted the statues without the definition section . 
noLabel	These improvements included chlorination of drinking water, filtration and sewage treatment which led to the decline in deaths caused by infectious waterborne diseases such as cholera and intestinal diseases.	In Cutler and Miller's, "The Role of Public Health Improvements in Health Advances", they display evidence of the decline in typhoid fever deaths in Chicago, Baltimore, Cincinnati, and Cleveland after these American cities adopted chlorination, filtration, or a sewage improvement .
noLabel	Ali retired following this victory on June 27, 1979, but returned in 1980 to face current champion Larry Holmes in an attempt to win a heavyweight title an unprecedented four times.	Angelo Dundee refused to let his man come out for the 11th round, in what became Ali's only loss by anything other than a decision.
noLabel	Most municipalities have advisory bodies: programme councils (programmråd) and vocational councils (yrkesråd) composed of employers’ and employees’ representatives from the locality.	The councils advise schools on matters such as provision of workplace training courses, equipment purchase and training of supervisors in APU .
noLabel	The role of the emperor as head of the Shinto religion was exploited during the war, creating an Imperial cult that led to kamikaze bombers and other fanaticism.	This in turn led to the requirement in the Potsdam Declaration for the elimination "for all time [of] the authority and influence of those who have deceived and misled the people of Japan into embarking on world conquest".
noLabel	The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, formed after the Union of Lublin in 1569 and lasting until the final partition of the state in 1795, operated much like many modern European constitutional monarchies (into which it was officially changed by the establishment of the Constitution of May 3, 1791, which historian Norman Davies calls "the first constitution of its kind in Europe").	The legislators of the unified state truly did not see it as a monarchy at all, but as a republic under the presidency of the King.
noLabel	When Shockey left the firm in January 2005 to return to work for Lewis, he accepted a salary of just under $160,000.	That put him among the best-paid congressional employees, but it was a big reduction from the $1.5 million he earned at Copeland Lowery in 2003, and the $2.0 million in 2004 . 
noLabel	Assuming access to guns, the top ten types of guns involved in crime in the U.S. show a definite trend in favoring handguns over long guns.	The top ten guns used in crime, as reported by the ATF in 1993, included the Smith & Wesson .38 Special and .357 revolvers; Raven Arms .25 caliber, Davis P-380 .380 caliber, Ruger .22 caliber, Lorcin L-380 .380 caliber, and Smith & Wesson semi-automatic handguns; Mossberg and Remington 12 gauge shotguns; and the Tec DC-9 .
noLabel	Sandy Alomar, the team's veteran catcher, chastised some of the dissenters, telling them it was their duty to take the test.	Finally, saying they were feeling pressure from the union, the players walked into the bathroom, where the officials dispensed dipsticks for urine tests.
noLabel	Despite the foregoing the statistics for 1938 and 1939 show Germans as being the top nationality refused entry for both years and it is likely that a large proportion of these were potential refugees being returned to an uncertain fate.	That said, the UK admitted more Germans than any other nationality in 1939 and continued to admit Germans throughout the war . 
noLabel	In July 2010, The Wall Street Journal reported that Hamas officials cited the raid on a flotilla as evidence that there is "more to gain" from the international condemnation produced by Israel's use of force than by attacking Israel.	Aziz Dweik, "a leading Hamas lawmaker in the West Bank", said "When we use violence, we help Israel win international support.
noLabel	Social Control Theory (later also called Social Bonding Theory) proposes that people's relationships, commitments, values, norms, and beliefs encourage them not to break the law.	Thus, if moral codes are internalized and individuals are tied into, and have a stake in their wider community, they will voluntarily limit their propensity to commit deviant acts.
noLabel	Reverence and veneration of the national flag has long been profound in the United States, possibly more so than in many other countries.	This reverence has led many state legislatures as well as the federal Congress to pass legislation banning the burning of the flag.
noLabel	The wages of the meanest labourer can supply them.. [W]hy should those who have been educated in the higher ranks of life, regard it as worse than death, to be reduced to live, even without labour, upon the same simple fare with him, to dwell under the same lowly roof, and to be clothed in the same humble attire?	From whence, then, arises that emulation which runs through all the different ranks of men, and what are the advantages which we propose by that great purpose of human life which we call bettering our condition?
noLabel	The Asylum and Immigration Tribunal (AIT) was a tribunal constituted in the United Kingdom with jurisdiction to hear appeals from many immigration and asylum decisions.	It was created on 4 April 2005, replacing the former Immigration Appellate Authority (IAA) and fell under the administration of the Tribunals Service. 
noLabel	Morton Sobell – American engineer tried and convicted along with the Rosenbergs, was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment but released from Alcatraz in 1969, after serving 17 years and 9 months .	After proclaiming his innocence for over half a century, Sobell admitted spying for the Soviets, and implicated Julius Rosenberg, in an interview with the New York Times published on September 11, 2008 .
noLabel	The same survey found while only 27% of 13- to 16-year-olds had been involved in intimate or sexual activity, 8% had had a casual sexual relationship, which has been described by one journalist as a "profound shift in the culture of high school dating and sex" .	In his book, Why Gender Matters, researcher Leonard Sax states that teenage sexual encounters are increasingly taking place outside the context of romantic relationships, in purely sexual "hookups" . 
noLabel	Other allegations surfaced in several states that the group called Voters Outreach of America had collected and submitted Republican voter registration forms while inappropriately discarding voter registration forms where the new voter had chosen to register with the Democratic Party.	Such people would believe they had registered to vote, and would only discover on election day that they were not registered and could not cast a ballot . 
noLabel	Federal prosecutors have also considered prosecuting Assange for trafficking in stolen government property, but since the diplomatic cables are intellectual rather than physical property, that approach also faces hurdles .	Any prosecution of Assange would require extraditing him to the United States, a step made more complicated and potentially delayed by any preceding extradition to Sweden .
noLabel	Intelligent design proponent William Dembski questions the first premise of the argument, maintaining a distinction between "intelligent design" and optimal design .	It is noted by theists that the panda's "thumb" works well for what the panda uses it for – to strip leaves. 
noLabel	The potential revenue from this arbitrage can offset the cost and losses of storage; the cost of storage may add 25% to the cost of any wind energy stored, but it is not envisaged that this would apply to a large proportion of wind energy generated.	Thus, the 2 GW Dinorwig pumped storage plant adds costs to nuclear energy in the UK for which it was built, but not to all the power produced from the 30 or so GW of nuclear plants in the UK. 
noLabel	A number of early Western role-playing video games used a highly tactical form of combat, including parts of the Ultima series, which introduced party-based, tiled combat in Ultima III: Exodus (1983), Ultima III would go on to be ported to many other platforms and influence the development of later titles, as did Japan's Bokosuka Wars released that same year .	Conventionally, however, the term tactical RPG (known as simulation RPG in Japan) refers to the distinct subgenre that was born in Japan; the early origins of tactical RPGs are difficult to trace from the American side of the Pacific where much of the early RPG genre developed .
noLabel	Responding to Hitchens's claim that "all attempts to reconcile faith with science and reason are consigned to failure and ridicule", Peter Berkowitz of the Hoover Institution (with which Hitchens had an official affiliation) quotes a paleontologist that Hitchens himself commended—Stephen Jay Gould.	Referencing a number of scientists with religious faith, Gould wrote, "Either half my colleagues are enormously stupid, or else the science of Darwinism is fully compatible with conventional religious beliefs—and equally compatible with atheism.
noLabel	While many games rely on emergent principles, video games commonly present simulated story worlds where emergent behavior occurs within the context of the game.	The term "emergent narrative" has been used to describe how, in a simulated environment, storyline can be created simply by "what happens to the player.
noLabel	Complementary terms include free software, licensed by the owner under more permissive terms, and public domain software, which is not subject to copyright and can be used for any purpose.	Proponents of free and open source software use proprietary or non-free to describe software that is not free or open source . 
noLabel	The  brings together experts on governance and conflict prevention from bilateral and multilateral development co-operation agencies, including the EC, the UN system, the IMF, the World Bank and regional banks.	It helps to improve development co-operation and coherent international action in situations where the Millennium Development Goals are undermined by threats of violent conflict, human insecurity, fragility, weak governance and instability. 
noLabel	Therefore, definitions of crimes will vary from place to place, in accordance to the cultural norms and mores, but may be broadly classified as blue-collar crime, corporate crime, organized crime, political crime, public order crime, state crime, state-corporate crime, and white-collar crime .	However, there have been moves in contemporary criminological theory to move away from liberal pluralism, culturalism and postmodernism by introducing the universal term 'harm' into the criminological debate as a replacement for the legal term 'crime' .
noLabel	Even though it is not legally binding, the Declaration has been adopted in or has influenced most national constitutions since 1948.	It has also served as the foundation for a growing number of national laws, international laws, and treaties, as well as regional, national, and sub-national institutions protecting and promoting human rights.
noLabel	Before the 18th century, the existence of God was so universally accepted in the western world that even the possibility of true atheism was questioned.	This is called theistic innatism—the notion that all people believe in God from birth; within this view was the connotation that atheists are simply in denial . 
noLabel	In fact, experts have discovered that natural learning produces far greater changes in behavior than do traditional learning methods, though not necessarily an increase in the amount of information learned .	Since traditional education requires all children to begin reading at the same time and do multiplication at the same time, unschoolers believe that some children cannot help but be bored because this was something that they had been ready to learn earlier, and even worse, some children cannot help but fail, because they are not yet ready for this new information being taught.
noLabel	In 2003, France enacted penalty-enhancement hate crime laws for crimes motivated by bias against the victim's actual or perceived ethnicity, nation, race, religion, or sexual orientation.	The penalties for murder were raised from 30 years (for non-hate crimes) to life imprisonment (for hate crimes), and the penalties for violent attacks leading to permanent disability were raised from 10 years (for non-hate crimes) to 15 years (for hate crimes) .
noLabel	The early tests were used primarily to discern the military effects of atomic weapons (Crossroads had involved the effect of atomic weapons on a navy, and how they functioned underwater) and to test new weapon designs.	During the 1950s these included new hydrogen bomb designs, which were tested in the Pacific, and also new and improved fission weapon designs.
noLabel	In March 2010, WikiLeaks released a secret 32-page U.S. Department of Defense Counterintelligence Analysis Report written in March 2008 discussing the leaking of material by WikiLeaks and how it could be deterred .	In April, a classified video of the 12 July 2007 Baghdad airstrike was released, showing two Reuters employees being fired at, after the pilots mistakenly thought the men were carrying weapons, which were in fact cameras .
noLabel	" and that the use of the term "terrorist" depends on whether or not the speaker believes the acts involved are warranted .	Believers have also responded to atheists in these discussions by pointing to the widespread imprisonment and mass murder of individuals under atheist states in the twentieth century: .
noLabel	Chief Justice Rehnquist, writing for the majority, stated that "The incidental advancement of a religious mission, or the perceived endorsement of a religious message, is reasonably attributable to the individual aid recipients not the government, whose role ends with the disbursement of benefits."	They found that, in theory, there is no need for parents to use religious schools, and so long as the law does not especially encourage the use of vouchers for religious schools, the fact that most parents do choose parochial schools is irrelevant.
noLabel	Presently, budget limitations and using the power of the purse form a controversial part of discussion regarding Congressional opposition to the Iraq War.	On March 23, 2007, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a supplemental war budget that imposed a timeline on the presence of American combat troops in Iraq, but the legislation was not passed. 
noLabel	Civil rights supporters dismissed Goldwater's individual liberty argument by noting that he expressed no opposition to segregation laws forcing business owners to operate on a segregated basis.	Most Democrats from the Southern states opposed the bill and led an unsuccessful 83-day filibuster, including Senators Albert Gore, Sr. (D-TN), J. William Fulbright (D-AR), and Robert Byrd (D-WV), who personally filibustered for 14 hours straight.
noLabel	A counter-argument against the Cosmological argument ("chicken or the egg") takes its assumption that things cannot exist without creators and applies it to God, setting up an infinite regress.	This attacks the premise that the universe is the second cause (after God, who is claimed to be the first cause). 
noLabel	Quoting a World Health Organisation report, Trevor Jones (director of research and development at the Wellcome Foundation, as of 2006) argued in 2006 that patent monopolies do not create monopoly pricing.	He argued that the companies given monopolies "set prices largely on the willingness/ability to pay, also taking into account the country, disease and regulation" instead of receiving competition from legalized generics .
noLabel	Another reason cited for not granting collective bargaining rights to public employees is the advantage held by public employee in rights granted under existing civil service or personnel rules .	In countries such as the United States, the courts have repeatedly held that public employees possess a property interest in their jobs, which interest triggers constitutional protections to the employee including due process of law .
noLabel	The UK political system, while technically a multi-party system, has functioned generally as a two-party (sometimes called a "two-and-a-half party) system; since the 1920s the two largest political parties have been the Conservative Party and the Labour Party.	Before the Labour Party rose in British politics the Liberal Party was the other major political party along with the Conservatives.
noLabel	Wind power in Brazil amounts to an installed capacity of 602 MW at the end of 2009, enough to power a city about 300 thousand residences.	The 36 windparks and windfarms in the country, in 2009, were located in Northeastern Brazil (5 States), Southern Brazil (3 States), and Southeastern Brazil (1 State).
noLabel	"Condoms are too heavy", i.e., their material significantly decreases sensation both in the penis and in the ability of the vagina's walls to properly feel the penis, because of the material barrier.	In general, this complaint has been responded to by condom manufacturers via the production of "thin" and even "ultra-thin" condom types; however, even the "thin" types are sometimes claimed by men or women (or both) to not "feel as good" as sexual intercourse without a condom. 
noLabel	Other historians, influenced by Marxist thinking, have emphasized the importance of the peasants and the urban workers in presenting the Revolution as a gigantic class struggle .	In general, scholarship on the French Revolution initially studied the political ideas and developments of the era, but it has gradually shifted towards social history that analyzes the impact of the Revolution on individual lives . 
noLabel	When King Edward died in 1483, Elizabeth (who was highly unpopular with even the Yorkists and probably did need protection) took her five daughters and youngest son (Richard, Duke of York; Prince Edward had his own household by then) and again moved into sanctuary at Westminster.	She had all the comforts of home; she brought so much furniture and so many chests that the workmen had to knock holes in some of the walls to get everything in fast enough to suit her.
noLabel	The point in 1942, when the army relinquished its control of the German nuclear energy project, was the zenith of the project relative to the number of personnel devoting time to the effort.	There were only about seventy scientists working on the project, with about forty devoting more than half their time to nuclear fission research.
noLabel	On 30 November 2002, he was elected dean, taking, as is customary, the title of cardinal bishop of the suburbicarian diocese of Ostia.	He was the first Dean of the College elected Pope since Paul IV (1555–59) and the first cardinal bishop elected Pope since Pius VIII (1829–30). 
noLabel	A widely publicized example of internet censorship is the "Great Firewall of China" (in reference both to its role as a network firewall and to the ancient Great Wall of China).	The system blocks content by preventing IP addresses from being routed through and consists of standard firewall and proxy servers at the Internet gateways.
noLabel	This can also create discord between the president and the legislature if they are of separate parties, allowing one to block the other.	This type of democracy is not common around the world today due to the conflicts to which it can lead, but most countries in the Americas, including the USA, use this system.
noLabel	On November 14, 2001, in the 150th anniversary issue, The New York Times ran an article by former editor Max Frankel reporting that before and during World War II, the Times had maintained a strict policy in their news reporting and editorials to minimize reports on the Holocaust .	The Times accepted the detailed analysis and findings of journalism professor Laurel Leff, who had published an article the year before in the Harvard International Journal of the Press and Politics, that The New York Times had deliberately suppressed news of the Third Reich’s persecution and murder of Jews .
noLabel	Thousands more died later from related blast and burn injuries, and hundreds more from radiation illnesses from exposure to the bomb's initial radiation.	The bombing raid on Nagasaki had the third highest fatality rate in World War II after the nuclear strike on Hiroshima and the March 9/10 1945 fire bombing raid on Tokyo .
noLabel	ARTICLE 19 is a founding member of the International Freedom of Expression Exchange (IFEX), a global network of non-governmental organisations that monitors free expression violations worldwide.	It is also a member of the Tunisia Monitoring Group, a coalition of 16 free expression organisations that lobbied the Tunisian government to improve its human rights record and the International Partnership Group for Azerbaijan (IPGA), a coalition of international organisations working to promote and protect freedom of expression in Azerbaijan. 
noLabel	" An example was given: If two persons X and Y have identical talent but X is from a poor family while Y is from a rich one, then equality of fair opportunity is in effect when both X and Y have the same chance of winning the job .	It suggests the ideal society is "classless" without a social hierarchy being passed from generation to generation, although parents can still pass along advantages to their children by genetics and socialization skills .
noLabel	Other religions, such as Buddhism, do not concern themselves with the question of the existence or non-existence of God at all.	Psychological and sociological explanations for believing in the existence of God may point to a shared neurological and cultural framework for belief based on cognitive processes in the brain.
noLabel	According to Observatoire de l'Action Humanitaire (Centre for Humanitarian Action), ever since Robert Ménard was replaced by Jean-François Julliard in September 2008, RWB has been concerned with violations of press freedom not only in third-world dictatorships but also in developed countries like France.	Through widening its geographical scope, RWB aims at countering accusations of overly focusing on left-wing regimes unfriendly to the US .
noLabel	According to Jane's Information Group, details of the design other than the number of stages and that it uses solid fuel have not been released.	Uzi Ruben, former director of Israel's Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, indicated that, "Unlike other Iranian missiles, the Sajil bears no resemblance to any North Korean, Russian, Chinese or Pakistani (missile technology).
noLabel	Furthermore, the company which he gave to his daughters took in nearly $2-million from unknown sources after he entered the government.	Blau also claimed that after leaving the army and joining the private sector, Ashkenazi approached Barak about entering into business with him. 
noLabel	One of the oldest Western philosophies of human rights is that they are a product of a natural law, stemming from different philosophical or religious grounds.	Other theories hold that human rights codify moral behavior which is a human social product developed by a process of biological and social evolution (associated with Hume).
noLabel	In March 2003, an amendment was made to the Constitution of the People's Republic of China, stating "The State respects and preserves human rights.	" In addition, China was dropped from a list of top 10 human rights violators in the annual human rights report released by the U.S. State Department in 2008, while the report indicated that there were still widespread problems in China . 
noLabel	In his 1997 essay The Cathedral and the Bazaar, open source evangelist Eric S. Raymond suggests a model for developing OSS known as the bazaar model.	Raymond likens the development of software by traditional methodologies to building a cathedral, "carefully crafted by individual wizards or small bands of mages working in splendid isolation" .
noLabel	The San Francisco Chronicle, however, felt California's Proposition 90 initiative went too far and would restrict the power of the state government to create "rights-of-way for utilities" and it worried that states would be unable to enforce environmental laws since it would be required to compensate property owners for "any substantial economic loss.	" A reporter for USA Today suggested the referendums might "gut local and state abilities to enact or enforce virtually any regulations affecting private land use and development.
noLabel	The United Nations Security Council convened an emergency meeting at the request of Turkey, during which the Turkish foreign minister stated "Israel must be held accountable for its crimes" (prior to the meeting, the Palestinian ambassador to the UN called for an independent Security Council investigation).	While the British ambassador said Israel should end the Gaza blockade and take steps for an investigation, the US deputy permanent representative supported the Israeli position that humanitarian aid should have gone by "accepted international mechanisms," and the Israeli deputy permanent representative said the flotilla was not humanitarian but had a mission of breaking the blockade . 
noLabel	In 2008 there were 4,000 Sudanese in Israel, of whom 1,200 were from Darfur and the rest are Christians from South Sudan.	The vast majority of them arrived to Israel through the Israeli-Egypt border, and most live in Tel-Aviv, Arad, Eilat  and Bnei Brak .
noLabel	In 2009, 65,561 total convictions were reported to the Texas State Criminal Repository for various offenses committed by individuals age 21 and over.	Of those convicted, 101 individuals held a license to carry a concealed handgun at the time the offense was committed .
noLabel	The Book of Jubilees, part of the Bible of the Ethiopian Orthodox, written in the time of John Hyrcanus, reveals the hostility directed against those who abandoned circumcision (xv.	26–27): "Whosoever is uncircumcised belongs to 'the sons of Belial,' to 'the children of doom and eternal perdition'; for all the angels of the Presence and of the Glorification have been so from the day of their creation, and God's anger will be kindled against the children of the covenant if they make the members of their body appear like those of the Gentiles, and they will be expelled and exterminated from the earth". 
noLabel	While its usage is "associated with self-reported reductions in injecting risk behaviour such as syringe sharing, and in public drug use" and "with increased uptake of detoxification and treatment services.	" However, "a lack of studies, as well as methodological problems such as isolating the effect from other interventions or low coverage of the risk population, evidence regarding DCRs — while encouraging — is insufficient for drawing conclusions with regard to their effectiveness in reducing HIV or hepatitis C virus (HCV) incidence."
noLabel	Syria at first claimed that its anti-aircraft weapons had fired at Israeli planes, which bombed empty areas in the desert, or later, a military construction site .	During the two days following the attack, Turkish media reported finding Israeli fuel tanks in Hatay and Gaziantep Province, and the Turkish Foreign Minister lodged a formal protest with the Israeli envoy . 
noLabel	As of 2006, the following 19 countries had freedom of information legislation that extended to government bodies and private bodies: Antigua and Barbuda, Angola, Armenia, Colombia, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic, Estonia, Finland, France, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Panama, Poland, Peru, South Africa, Turkey, Trinidad and Tobago, Slovakia, and the United Kingdom.	The degree to which private bodies are covered under freedom of information legislation varies, in Angola, Armenia and Peru the legislation only applies to private companies that perform what are considered to be public functions.
noLabel	When river flow exceeds the capacity of the orifice plate water builds behind the dam but as soon as the flow rate reduces the water behind the dam slowly releases until the reservoir is empty again.	In some cases such reservoirs only function a few times in a decade and the land behind the reservoir may be developed as community or recreational land.
noLabel	The two women knew each other as a result of Heisenberg’s maternal grandfather and Himmler’s father being rectors and members of a Bavarian hiking club.	Eventually, Himmler settled the Heisenberg affair by sending two letters, one to SS-Gruppenführer Reinhard Heydrich and one to Heisenberg, both on 21 July 1938.
noLabel	Mary I pursued disastrous wars in France and attempted to return England to Roman Catholicism, in the process burning Protestants at the stake as heretics.	She died in 1558, and was succeeded by her Protestant half-sister Elizabeth I. England returned to Protestantism, and continued its growth into a major world power by building its navy and exploring the New World .
noLabel	Some earlier reports had expressed the position that circumcision has little to no effect on HIV transmission among heterosexual couples .	Furthermore, some have challenged the validity of the African randomized controlled trials, prompting a number of researchers to question the effectiveness of circumcision as an HIV prevention strategy .
noLabel	The WHO operates "Goodwill Ambassadors", members of the arts, sport or other fields of public life aimed at drawing attention to WHO's initaitves and projects.	There are currently five Goodwill Ambassadors (Jet Li, Nancy Brinker, Peng Liyuan, Yohei Sasakawa and the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra) and a further ambassador associated with a partnership project (Craig David) .
noLabel	In Norway, defamation is a crime punished with imprisonment of up to 6 months or a fine (Penal Code, Chapter 23, § 246).	When the offense is likely to harm one's “good name” and reputation, or exposes him to hatred, contempt or loss of confidence, the maximum prison term goes up to one year, and if the defamation happens in print, in broadcasting or through a especially aggravating circumstance, imprisonment may reach two years (§ 247).
noLabel	This is part of the appeal of the genre, where players experience growing from an ordinary person into a superhero with amazing powers.	Whereas other games give the player these powers immediately, the player in a role-playing game will choose their powers and skills as they gain experience . 
noLabel	Nelson was the lead Democratic Senator among the "Gang of 14," a bloc of 14 Senators who, on May 23, 2005, forged a compromise on the Democrats' use of the judicial filibuster, thus blocking the Republican leadership's attempt to implement the so-called "nuclear option".	Under the agreement among the Gang of 14, Democrats would retain the power to filibuster one of President George W. Bush's judicial nominees only in an "extraordinary circumstance", and the three most conservative Bush appellate court nominees (Janice Rogers Brown, Priscilla Owen and William Pryor) would receive a vote by the full Senate.
noLabel	It has been argued both ways as to whether such individuals can be classified into some form of atheism or agnosticism.	Philosophers A. J. Ayer and Theodore M. Drange reject both categories, stating that both camps accept "God exists" as a proposition; they instead place noncognitivism in its own category .
noLabel	Including the right to health in Article 24, the right to social security in Article 25, the right to an adequate standard of living in Article 27, the right to education in Article 28, and the right to protection from economic exploitation (see child labour) in Article 32 .	The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination prohibits discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin in relation to a number of economic, social and cultural rights.
noLabel	In 480 BC a small force of Spartans, Thespians, and Thebans led by King Leonidas (approximately 300 were full Spartiates, 700 were Thespians, and 400 were Thebans although these numbers do not reflect casualties incurred prior to the final battle), made a legendary last stand at the Battle of Thermopylae against the massive Persian army, inflicting very high casualties on the Persian forces before finally being encircled .	The superior weaponry, strategy, and bronze armour of the Greek hoplites and their phalanx again proved their worth one year later when Sparta assembled at full strength and led a Greek alliance against the Persians at the battle of Plataea.
noLabel	A consequence of this argument is that abortion is wrong in all the cases where killing a child or adult with the same sort of future as the embryo would be wrong.	So for example, if involuntary euthanasia of patients with a future filled with intense physical pain is morally acceptable, aborting embryos whose future is filled with intense physical pain will also be morally acceptable.
noLabel	After the Korean War, the Soviet Union transferred nuclear technology and weapons to the People's Republic of China as an adversary of the United States and NATO.	According to Ion Mihai Pacepa, "Khrushchev’s nuclear-proliferation process started with Communist China in April 1955, when the new ruler in the Kremlin consented to supply Beijing a sample atomic bomb and to help with its mass production.
noLabel	The majority of the remaining states' constitutions differ from the text of the United States Constitution primarily in their clarification of exactly to whom the right belongs or by the inclusion of additional, specific protections or restrictions.	Seventeen states refer to the right to keep and bear arms as being an individual right with Utah and Alaska referring to it explicitly as "[t]he individual right to keep and bear arms", while the other fifteen refer to the right as belonging to "every citizen", "all individuals", "all persons", or another, very similar phrase.
noLabel	Research into the causes and consequences of occupational segregation, the gender pay gap, and "glass ceiling" phenomena have been a significant part of feminist economics.	While conventional neoclassical economic theories of the 1960s and 1970s explained these as the result of free choices made by women and men who simply had different abilities or preferences, feminist economists pointed out the important roles played by stereotyping, sexism, patriarchal beliefs and institutions, sexual harassment, and discrimination .
noLabel	" The Washington Post reported that the department was considering charges under the Espionage Act, a move which former prosecutors characterised as "difficult" because of First Amendment protections for the press .	Several Supreme Court cases have previously established that the American constitution protects the re-publication of illegally gained information provided the publishers did not themselves break any laws in acquiring it .
noLabel	Freedom of speech in the United States is protected by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and by many state constitutions and state and federal laws.	The freedom is not absolute; the Supreme Court of the United States has recognized several categories of speech that are excluded from the freedom of speech, and it has recognized that governments may enact reasonable time, place, or manner restrictions on speech. 
noLabel	The literary market simply could not support large numbers of writers, who, in any case, were very poorly remunerated by the publishing-bookselling guilds .	The writers of Grub Street, the Grub Street Hacks, were left feeling extremely bitter about the relative success of their literary cousins, the men of letters . 
noLabel	The activist noticed that hackers from China were using the network to gather foreign governments’ information, and began to record this traffic.	Only a small fraction has ever been posted on WikiLeaks, but the initial tranche served as the site's foundation, and Assange was able to say, "[w]e have received over one million documents from thirteen countries.
noLabel	Some interest has been articulated to support stem cell research and, in so doing, demonstrate Jewish law's leniency toward abortion of "pre-embryo" cells.	Thus, Eisenberg emphasizes that "Rabbi Yechiel Weinberg (author of the Responsa Seridei Aish), clearly held that there is no prohibition of abortion before forty days according to Rabbi Trani's opinion since there is no 'limb' to injure prior to formation of a recognizable fetus at forty days.
noLabel	Government deficit: Huge fiscal imbalances developed during the past six years from 2004 to 2009, where "the output increased in nominal terms by 40%, while central government primary expenditures increased by 87% against an increase of only 31% in tax revenues."	Thus the Greek government now acknowledge the need to restore the fiscal balance of the public budget, by implementing permanent real expenditure cuts (meaning expenditures are only allowed to grow 3.8% from 2009 to 2013, which is below the expected inflation at 6.9%), and with overall revenues planned to grow 31.5% from 2009 to 2013, secured not only by new/higher taxes but also by a major reform of the ineffective Tax Collection System. 
noLabel	Even the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention pitched in, with an extensive study on gun control which found "Evidence was insufficient to determine the effectiveness of any of these laws."	A similar survey of firearms research by the United States National Academy of Sciences arrived at nearly identical conclusions in 2004 . 
noLabel	FAEEs (nanogram = one billionth of a gram) appear in hair in almost one order of magnitude lower than (the relevant order of magnitude of) EtG (picogram = one trillionth of a gram).	It has been technically possible to measure FAEEs since 1993, and the first study reporting the detection of EtG in hair was done by Sachs in 1993 . 
noLabel	Despite the fact that a similar opinion does not exist in relation to citizens of Sudan, Israel does not deport them back to Egypt due to a real fear for their fate .	Although the immigrants entered Israel from Egypt, Israel cannot deport them back to Egypt because the Egyptians refuse to give an undertaking not to deport the immigrants to their countries of origin.
noLabel	The school year is split up into three sections (Autumn term, the time at school between Summer and Christmas; Spring term, between Christmas and Easter; Summer term, between Easter and the end of the year in Summer) and roughly halfway through each term pupils will get one week off school, known as half-term.	Independent schools are known for given longer holidays including up to 10 weeks for Summer, due to adopting longer school days and some adopting Saturday School, usually being compulsory for only Saturday's mornings with afternoon's being for non-academia related activities, though some are for the entire Saturday. 
noLabel	Private schools generally prefer to be called independent schools, because of their freedom to operate outside of government and local government control, but are also referred to as public schools.	The reason is historical as a 'public school' was open to entrants from anywhere, and not merely to those from a certain locality, which was more usual with other schools, often charitable foundations for the benefit of a particular area.
noLabel	In general, athletes will be held responsible for positive findings no matter how the drug got into their bodies, but penalties can be waived if athletes can prove they were not at fault.	To Frank Shorter, the 1972 Olympic marathon champion and now chairman of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, the new code is a giant step forward.
noLabel	The MGR-1 Honest John was the first of such weapons, developed in 1953 as a surface-to-surface missile with a 15&nbsp;mile/25&nbsp;kilometer maximum range.	Because of their limited range, their potential use was heavily constrained (they could not, for example, threaten Moscow with an immediate strike).
noLabel	The ethics of such markets existing have been questioned by many, particularly feminists such as Gloria Steinem, Germaine Greer, and Naomi Wolf.	Radical feminists argue that the sex industry exploits women, contributes to sexism, and is a way of maintaining patriarchy; that prostitution is a form of male domination and oppression of women, and, as a result of such views on prostitution, Sweden, Norway and Iceland have enacted laws which outlaw the buying, but not the selling of sexual services (the client commits a crime, but not the prostitute).
noLabel	The system was sometimes called the 10/42, because one had to work for 10 weeks to get benefits for the other 42 weeks of the year.	It was also in 1971 that the UI program was first opened up to maternity and sickness benefits, for 15 weeks in each case. 
noLabel	According to the company, the process could reduce the time for water reclamation from tailings to weeks rather than years, with the recovered water being recycled into the oil sands plant.	In addition to reducing the number of tailing ponds, Suncor claims that the process could reduce the time to reclaim a tailing pond from 40 years at present to 7–10 years, with land rehabilitation continuously following 7 to 10 years behind the mining operations .
noLabel	The concept of multiculturalism was preceded by the concept of cultural pluralism, which was first developed in the 1910s and 1920s, and became widely popular during the 1940s.	The concept of cultural pluralism first emerged in the 1910s and 1920s among intellectual circles out of the debates in the United States over how to approach issues of immigration and national identity. 
noLabel	At the time of the unconditional surrender of Germany on May 8, 1945, the Manhattan Project was still months away from producing a working weapon.	That April, after the death of American President Franklin D. Roosevelt, former Vice-President Harry S. Truman was told about the secret wartime project for the first time. 
noLabel	Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said that the decision enabled Israel to focus on real security issues and would eliminate "Hamas' main propaganda claim," and that it would strengthen the case for keeping the sea blockade in place .	He also said the decision would have been coordinated with the United States and with Tony Blair, the representative of the Quartet for the Middle East .
noLabel	Richard Falk, professor emeritus of international law at Princeton University said that the "ships that were situated in the high seas where freedom of navigation exists, according to the law of the seas" .	Anthony D'Amato, a professor of international law at Northwestern University School of Law, said the raid was illegal and that a legitimate blockade would have required a state of war between Israel and Hamas, which he said was not the case . 
noLabel	While writing the majority opinion for United States v. O'Brien, Chief Justice Warren described a series of guidelines used to determine whether a law that restricts speech violates the First Amendment.	These guidelines must remain neutral in relation to the subject of the speech at hand (i.e., a speech that criticizes government action and is believed to violate a law must be treated the same way as a speech under identical circumstance, but praises the government as opposed to criticizing.)
noLabel	In France, Holocaust denial became more prominent in the 1990s as négationnisme, though the movement has existed in ultra-left French politics since at least the 1960s, led by figures such as Pierre Guillaume (who was involved in the bookshop La Vieille Taupe during the 1960s).	Recently, elements of the extreme far right in France have begun to build on each others' negationist arguments, which often span beyond the Holocaust to cover a range of antisemitic views, incorporating attempts to tie the Holocaust to the Biblical massacre of the Canaanites, critiques of Zionism, and other material fanning what has been called a "conspiratorial Judeo-phobia" designed to legitimize and "banalize" antisemitism . 
noLabel	Sex is 'valuable' (in the sense that it is a basic human drive - though it is not technologically productive in its own right), and because of this it can be used toward unethical ends.	It can also be used as a means of direct economic exchange such as in various forms of sex work and pornography where sex is exchanged directly for currency in various marketplaces.
noLabel	It is argued that in ads women are often seen touching themselves, which is a sign that their body is delicate .	Women are also depicted as barely touching an object or caressing it, whereas men firmly grasp an object, as if to say that they control over their life, while women are merely there .
noLabel	Unlike Athenian women who wore heavy, concealing clothes and were rarely seen outside the house, Spartan women wore dresses (peplos) slit up the side to allow freer movement and moved freely about the city, either walking or driving chariots.	Girls as well as boys exercised, possibly in the nude, and young women as well as young men may have participated in the Gymnopaedia ("Festival of Nude Youths") . 
noLabel	Separate reports indicate (Washington Times, 22 November 2002) that U.S. intelligence had as early as 1999 picked up signs that North Korea was continuing to develop nuclear arms.	Other reports also indicate that North Korea had been working covertly to develop an enrichment capability for nuclear weapons for at least five years and had used technology obtained from Pakistan (Washington Times, 18 October 2002).
noLabel	Alister McGrath suggests that the leap from the recognition of complexity to the assertion of improbability is problematic, as a theory of everything would be more complex than the theories it would replace, yet one would not conclude that it is less probable.	Dawkins has responded to this point in his debate with Lennox and at other times, saying that while physics is hard to understand fundamentally it is simple, unlike biology .
noLabel	To make the exercise more challenging, gymnasts will often include variations on a typical circling skill by turning (moores and spindles) or by straddling their legs (Flares).	Routines end when the gymnast performs a dismount, either by swinging his body over the horse, or landing after a handstand. 
noLabel	Moreover, although by the Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem no deterministic voting system is immune to tactical voting in all cases, some systems' results are more resistant to tactical voting than others'.	M. Badinski and R. Laraki, the inventors of the majority judgment system, performed an initial investigation of this question using a set of Monte Carlo simulated elections based on the results from a poll of the 2007 French presidential election which they had carried out using rated ballots.
noLabel	Kalian and Witztum note that as a proportion of the total numbers of tourists visiting the city, this is not significantly different from any other city .	The statements of these claims has however been disputed, with the arguments that experiencers of the Jerusalem syndrome already were mentally ill .
noLabel	By the end of the 1960s immigration legislation and rules were drawn from too many sources, out of date, clumsily drafted in haste or misconceived.	Consensus was reached that a completely new Immigration Act was needed to draw together or re-write the law in a way that would tighten controls and clarify the rules.
noLabel	By 1984, the percentage of total income owned by the top 1% rose from 10% to 16% while income shares of the top 5% and top 10% controlled 13.5% and 12%, respectively.	The growth in income for the top 1% then skyrocketed up to 22% by 1998 while the income growth rates for the top 5% and top 10% remained constant (15% total share of income and 12% total share of income, respectively).
noLabel	A similar exchange happens in many countries, such as India and Indonesia, where especially if visiting poorer people, it shows a form of empathy to deliberately not impose upon them .	In many other cultures, it would be considered polite for the person offering to only ask once, so as to respect the other person's wish when the offer is declined. 
noLabel	For the last several decades, the debate has been characterized by a stalemate between an individual right to bear arms based on the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution and the responsibility of government to prevent crime, maintain order and protect the wellbeing of its citizens .	In District of Columbia v. Heller, 554 U.S. 570 (2008), the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Second Amendment protects the right of an individual to own a firearm for the purposes of self defense within the home, while at the same time reaffirming the constitutionality of a wide range of long standing gun control laws .
noLabel	During the 2005 debate on renewal of the expiring provisions of the Patriot Act, Jeff Flake successfully submitted several amendments to the bill in the House of Representatives.	One required the FBI director to personally sign off on any request for library and bookstore records before applying to the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court but it was altered in the United States Senate version of the bill .
noLabel	Therefore, male students are more likely to get more teacher attention, and this extra interaction could give males an advantage in terms of future achievement.	The second view is that teachers demand more and show more respect toward students who they view to be high achievers . 
noLabel	For each knockdown in a round, the judge deducts an additional point from the fighter knocked down, resulting in a 10-8 score if there is one knockdown or a 10-7 score if there are two knockdowns.	If the referee instructs the judges to deduct a point for a foul, this deduction is applied after the preliminary computation.
noLabel	In 1795 all of the guilds in the Netherlands were disbanded by Napoleon, and with them the guild vocational schooling system.	After the French occupation, in the 1820s, the need for quality education caused more and more cities to form day and evening schools for various trades. 
noLabel	The U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that race could be used as one of several factors in professional school admissions without necessarily violating the equal protection clause of the 14th Amendment.	The Court found that the University of Michigan Law School's narrowly-tailored policy which considered race and other factors, with no quota or predetermined weight associated with the factors, was constitutional and appropriate "to further a compelling interest in obtaining the educational benefits that flow from a diverse student body."
noLabel	According to a 2004 study by Zhoua and Tolb, "one needs to lift the water by 2000 m, or transport it over more than 1600&nbsp;km to get transport costs equal to the desalination costs.	Desalinated water is expensive in places that are both somewhat far from the sea and somewhat high, such as Riyadh and Harare.
noLabel	Latin America having, a comparative advantage on agriculture and mainly forms its export sector losts $ 4bn annually due to the EU farm subsidy policies.	The aid money actually, instead of being used to finance other development infrastructure, ends up being used to fund terms of trade deficit brought about by trade liberalization.
noLabel	The legal status and management of council houses, and the social housing sector, has been subject to lobbying and change in recent years.	Local Authorities now have new legal powers to enable them to deal with anti-social behaviour and the misuse of council houses by organised gangs or anti-social tenants.
noLabel	Further, the ban against government aid to religious schools was supported before 1970 by most Protestants, who opposed aid to religious schools, which were mostly Catholic at the time.	After 1980, however, anti-Catholic sentiment has diminished among mainline Protestants, and the crucial coalition of public secularists and Protestant churches has collapsed.
noLabel	Elizabeth Malecki played the Special Forces agent Sonya Blade, who is pursuing the Black Dragon mercenary Kano (played by Richard Divizio).	Carlos Pesina played Raiden, the god of Thunder, while his brother Daniel Pesina played Hollywood movie star Johnny Cage and the ninja specter Scorpion as well as the game's two other ninja characters.
noLabel	Medical use of testicle extract began in the late 19th century, while its effects on strength were still being studied .	In 1889, the 72-year-old British neurologist Charles-Édouard Brown-Séquard injected himself with an extract of dog and guinea pig testicles, and reported at a scientific meeting that these injections had led to a variety of beneficial effects.
noLabel	Liceo: it is the general purpose kind of school, traditionally chosen by those wanting to pursue higher education (university or arts academy).	Depending on the area of interest of the pupils, different subkinds exist whose programmes are mostly decided at national level, but all offer at least basic teachings in Italian language and Literature, History, Geography, Philosophy, Mathematics, Physics, Biology, Chemistry, a foreign language (usually English, but also French, German or Spanish), History of Arts and Physical Education:
noLabel	Cleared property is also valued 5&ndash;10 times more than forested land and for that reason valuable to the owner whose ultimate objective is resale.	The soy industry is an important exporter for Brazil; therefore, the needs of soy farmers have been used to validate many of the controversial transportation projects that are currently developing in the Amazon . 
noLabel	In addition, public-school advocates assert that charter schools are designed to compete with public schools in a destructive and harmful manner rather than work in harmony with them.	To minimize these harmful effects, the American Federation of Teachers urges that charter schools adopt high standards, hire only certified teachers, and maintain teachers' collective-bargaining rights.
noLabel	Syria disputed these allegations, saying that there is not a military nuclear program in the country and that it has the right to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, especially in the field of nuclear medicine.	Syria's foreign minister said, "We are committed to the non-proliferation agreement between the agency and Syria and we (only) allow inspectors to come according to this agreement..We will not allow anything beyond the agreement because Syria does not have a military nuclear program.
noLabel	Brazil’s government has made attempts to reduce the production of tobacco, but has not had a successful systematic anti-tobacco farming initiative.	Brazil’s government, however, provides small loans for family farms, including those that grow tobacco, through the Programa Nacional de Fortalecimiento da Agricultura Familiar (PRONAF) .
noLabel	The Mitchell Report alleges that McNamee helped acquire performance-enhancing drugs including steroids, amphetamines, and human growth hormone for some or all of the players he personally trained.	McNamee told the Mitchell Commission that he began injecting Clemens with steroids in and that he continued to provide these steroids through .
noLabel	For the same year, Welt-Online reported that the US pharmaceutical industry spent almost double the amount on advertising (57.7 billion dollars) than it did on research (31.5 billion dollars).	But Marc-André Gagnon and Joel Lexchin of York University, Toronto, estimate that the actual expenses for advertising are higher yet, because not all entries are recorded by the research institutions .
noLabel	When people are starving, injured and dying they need speed and efficiency, yet FEMA comes along with forms and policies and rubber stamps.” He complains that FEMA is a mismanaged and nearly-bankrupt bureaucracy, open to corruption .	He also argues that the socialized insurance concept which underlies FEMA is deeply flawed, encouraging risk-taking – such as building beachfront homes in hurricane-prone coastal areas – that would be too expensive to consider if the sole source of disaster insurance were private-sector insurance purchased in the free market .
noLabel	Use of ordinary water (as opposed to heavy water) in nuclear reactors requires enriched fuel&nbsp;— the partial separation and relative enrichment of the rare 235U isotope from the far more common 238U isotope.	Typically, reactors also require inclusion of extremely chemically pure neutron moderator materials such as deuterium (in heavy water), helium, beryllium, or carbon, the latter usually as graphite.
noLabel	While an individual cannot be detained for illegally entering Russia for the purposes of applying for asylum, the penal code allows the government to imprison illegal immigrants including unregistered asylum seekers – making it even more imperative to meet the 24-hour deadline.	Even though the 24-hour limit can be relaxed, Article 5.1(7) states that a violation can serve as the basis for denial of a substantive evaluation of an applicant's claim. 
noLabel	Modern conscription, the massed military enlistment of national citizens, was devised during the French Revolution, to enable the Republic to defend itself from the attacks of European monarchies.	Deputy Jean-Baptiste Jourdan gave its name to the 5 September 1798 Act, whose first article stated: "Any Frenchman is a soldier and owes himself to the defense of the nation."
noLabel	This was granted in 2004, appealed, reversed in 2006, and went to trial in 2008, where the jury found that a violation had occurred.	The court imposed penalties of the original dollar amount on the employee and $120,000 on POGO, which submitted a sworn declaration that the organization will not issue any future settlement payments to Government employees . 
noLabel	Most entities and individuals active in offshore wind power believe that prices of electricity will grow significantly from 2009, as global efforts to reduce carbon emissions come into effect.	BTM expects cost per kWh to fall from 2014, and that the resource will always be more than adequate in the three areas Europe, United States and China . 
noLabel	Religious criticism has a long history, going back at least as far as the 5th century BCE in ancient Greece with Diagoras "the atheist" of Melos, and 1st century BCE in Rome with Titus Lucretius Carus's De Rerum Natura, and continuing to the present day with the advent of New Atheism, represented by such authors and journalists as Sam Harris, Daniel Dennett, Richard Dawkins, Victor J. Stenger, and Christopher Hitchens.	Alternatively, "religious criticism" has been used by the literary critic Harold Bloom to describe a mode of religious discussion that is secular or separate from religion but not inherently anti-religion. 
noLabel	If poor countries do not have to spend so much on debt payments, they can use the money instead for priorities which help reduce poverty such as basic health-care and education .	Many nations began offering services, such as free health care even while overwhelming the health care infrastructure, because of savings that resulted from the rounds of debt relief in 2005 .
noLabel	When Ayaan Hirsi Ali was a Member of the Netherlands Parliament she asked it to consider making the circumcision of male children unlawful .	In May 2008 a father who had his two sons, aged 3 and 6 circumcised against the will of their mother was found not guilty of causing them serious physical harm but was given a 6 week suspended jail sentence for taking the boys away from their mother against her will .
noLabel	Experts recommend that sexually active adolescents be screened for depression and be "provided with anticipatory guidance about the mental health risks of these behaviors.	" Professors at the University of California recommend that parents and health professionals help teens prepare for and cope with the emotions attached to sex . 
noLabel	In 2005, the Letters of Credence and Recall were altered so as to run in the name of the incumbent Governor-General, instead of following the usual international process of the letters being from one head of state to another.	In addition, the issuance of passports falls under the Royal Prerogative, and, as such, all New Zealand passports are issued in the monarch's name and remain her property.
noLabel	According to the U.S. Office of Management and Budget and Homeland Security Research Corporation, DHS Homeland security funding constitutes only 20-21% of the consolidated U.S.	Homeland Security - Homeland Defense funding, while approximately 40% of the DHS budget funds civil, non-security activities, such as the U.S. coast guard search and rescue operations and customs functions.
noLabel	The Alliance for the Separation of School & State opposes education vouchers on the grounds that "if vouchers become commonplace, private and religious schools will become more and more like public schools.	" Moreover, they suggest that if it is wrong in principle for the government to tax in order to fund public education, then one should not accept any portion of the ill-gotten money to fund private education . 
noLabel	This recognizes that there are semi-automatic household guns that are in widespread use like the .22 caliber Marlin Model 60 hunting rifle.	Similarly, although Kruschke claims long guns are not being used in suicide, there are in fact instances of long guns that are used for suicides . 
noLabel	In the Americas, considered by many a part of the 'West', the indigenous peoples of the Americas were seen by the first European explorers such as Columbus with amazement: "although the slaves were 'naked as the day they were born,' they showed 'no more embarrassment than animals.'"	 In the present, even though it is not acceptable to be publicly naked for many in countries of Latin America, some Western tourists go topless in public .
noLabel	Biologist E. O. Wilson estimated  in 2002 that if current rates of human destruction of the biosphere continue, one-half of all species of life on earth will be extinct in 100 years .	More significantly the rate of species extinctions at present is estimated at 100 to 1000 times "background" or average extinction rates in the evolutionary time scale of planet Earth .
noLabel	When King Gustav V asserted his right to decide and bypass the government in military matters just before the First World War ("borggårdskrisen", the Castle Court Crisis) it was seen as a deliberate provocation against established terms of how the country would be ruled.	The office of an appointed Supreme Commander was set up in 1939; before that date, from the late 19th century onwards, the leading men of the army and navy would report directly to the cabinet (and the king), and no fully unified command existed in the professional military sphere itself. 
noLabel	O'Rourke noted on his trip to Tanzania for his book Eat the Rich that gravel was produced with manual labor (by pounding rocks with tools), where in almost everywhere else in the world machines did the same work far more cheaply and efficiently.	He used Tanzania as an example of a nation with superb natural resources that nevertheless was among the poorest nations in the world. 
noLabel	Palin told the media through her spokesperson and three posts to her Facebook page that statements about Ezekiel Emanuel were reasons for her death panel comments.	These statements were first made by Betsy McCaughey, and were described by TIME as lacking context, and by PolitiFact and FactCheck as false euthanasia claims . 
noLabel	In 1998 the length of a copyright in the United States was increased by 20 years under the The Copyright Term Extension Act.	This legislation was strongly promoted by corporations which had valuable copyrights which otherwise would have expired, and has been the subject of substantial criticism on this point . 
noLabel	The loans should cover Greece's funding needs for the next three years (estimated at €30&nbsp;billion for the rest of 2010 and €40&nbsp;billion each for 2011 and 2012) .	According to EU officials, France and Germany demanded that their military dealings with Greece be a condition of their participation in the financial rescue . 
noLabel	The speed of population ageing is likely to increase over the next 3 decades, yet few countries have the evidence to determine if their growing older populations are living the extra years of life in good or poor health.	A "compression of morbidity" would imply reducing reduced disability in old age, whereas an expansion would see an increase in poor health with increased longevity.
noLabel	The Venetians' system for electing the Doge was a particularly convoluted process, consisting of five rounds of drawing lots (sortition) and five rounds of approval voting.	By drawing lots, a body of 30 electors was chosen, which was further reduced to nine electors by drawing lots again.
noLabel	And in says "Are you so foolish, that, whereas you began in the Spirit, you would now be made perfect by the flesh?"	He accused circumcision advocates of wanting to make a good showing in the flesh and of glorying or boasting of the flesh .
noLabel	In practical terms, there are certain specific actions which a person who attains the age of majority is permitted to take, which they could not do before.	These may include entering into a binding contract, buying stocks, voting, buying and/or consuming alcoholic beverages, driving motor vehicles on public roads, and marrying without obtaining consent of others.
noLabel	Crop residues (such as corn stalks, wheat straw and rice straw), wood waste, and municipal solid waste are potential sources of cellulosic biomass.	Dedicated energy crops, such as switchgrass, are also promising cellulose sources that can be sustainably produced in many regions of the United States .
noLabel	Bodybuilders seek out low-glycemic polysaccharides and other slowly digesting carbohydrates, which release energy in a more stable fashion than high-glycemic sugars and starches.	This is important as high-glycemic carbohydrates cause a sharp insulin response, which places the body in a state where it is likely to store additional food energy as fat.
noLabel	State racism—that is, institutions and practices of a nation-state that are grounded in racist ideology—has played a major role in all instances of settler colonialism, from the United States to Australia to Israel.	It also played a prominent role in the Nazi German regime and fascist regimes in Europe, and in the first part of Japan’s Shōwa period.
noLabel	The main programming thrust of ACEs was an emerging initiative called Safe Routes to School that was catalyzed by a program designed by Rich Killingsworth and Jessica Shisler at CDC called KidsWalk-to-School.	This program provided much needed attention to the connections of the built environment and health, especially obesity and physical inactivity .
noLabel	Whilst many studies have detected superior mental aptitudes amongst habitual gamers, research by Walter Boot at the University of Illinois found that non-gamers showed no improvement in memory or multitasking abilities after 20 hours of playing three different games.	The researchers suggested that "individuals with superior abilities are more likely to choose video gaming as an activity in the first place" .Unreliable - Discuss .
noLabel	" Palin also said that she hoped "to reach out and work with those who are on the other side of this issue, because I know that we can all agree on the need for and the desire for fewer abortions in America and greater support for adoption, for other alternatives that women can and should be empowered to embrace, to allow that culture of life.	" Gibson noted that Republican presidential nominee John McCain allows exceptions for rape or incest, and asked, "Do you believe in it only in the case where the life of the mother is in danger?"
noLabel	Like other forms of tobacco use, cigar smoking poses a significant health risk depending on dosage: risks are greater for those who inhale more when they smoke, smoke more cigars, or smoke them longer .	However, when cigar smokers don’t inhale or smoke few cigars per day, the risks are only slightly above those of never smokers .
noLabel	With the rapid rise of mechanization in the late 19th century and the 20th century, particularly in the form of the tractor, farming tasks could be done with a speed and on a scale previously impossible.	These advances have led to efficiencies enabling certain modern farms in the United States, Argentina, Israel, the United Kingdom Germany, and a few other nations to output volumes of high-quality produce per land unit at what may be the practical limit. 
noLabel	In 2005, a report by Doudou Diène, the Special Rapporteur of the UN Commission on Human Rights, expressed concerns about racism in Japan and stated that the government needed to recognize the depth of the problem .	Diène's nine-day investigation concluded that racial discrimination and xenophobia in Japan primarily affects three groups: national minorities, Latin Americans of Japanese descent, mainly Japanese Brazilians, and foreigners from other Asian countries .
noLabel	The reasons given by some smokers for this activity have been categorised as addictive smoking, pleasure from smoking, tension reduction/relaxation, social smoking, stimulation, habit/automatism, and handling.	There are gender differences in how much each of these reasons contribute, with females more likely than males to cite tension reduction/relaxation, stimulation and social smoking . 
noLabel	The United Nations Development Program published a report in April 2000 which focused on good governance in poor countries as a key to economic development and overcoming the selfish interests of wealthy elites often behind state actions in developing nations.	The report concludes that “Without good governance, reliance on trickle-down economic development and a host of other strategies will not work.” Despite the promise of such research several questions remain, such as where good governance comes from and how it can be achieved.
noLabel	Overall federal funding for community wind research and development is insufficient and even more so when compared to other fuels and energy sources.	In 2009 the US Department of Energy (DOE) received $118 million from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act for wind energy research and development.
noLabel	Typical second wave corruption metrics do not offer the worldwide coverage found in first wave projects, and instead focus on localizing information gathered to specific problems and creating deep, "unpackable" content that matches quantitative and qualitative data.	Meanwhile, alternative approaches such as the British aid agency's Drivers of Change research skips numbers entirely and favors understanding corruption via political economy analysis of who controls power in a given society .
noLabel	" Benjamin Franklin's influence is seen not only in that he chaired the constitutional convention which drafted the Pennsylvania constitution, but also because it included, virtually unchanged, Franklin's earlier proposals on executive rotation.	Pennsylvania's plural executive was composed of twelve citizens elected for the term of three years, followed by a mandatory vacation of four years . 
noLabel	Smoking a cigarette or a cigar would also become associated with the bohemian, someone who shunned the conservative middle class values and displayed his contempts for conservatism.	But this was a pleasure that was to be confined to a male world; women smokers were associated with prostitution and was not considered an activity in which proper ladies should involve themselves .
noLabel	Schooling is compulsory for all children in the United States, but the age range for which school attendance is required varies from state to state.	Most children begin elementary education with kindergarten (usually five to six years old) and finish secondary education with twelfth grade (usually eighteen years old).
noLabel	The Founder of Recess At Work Day suggests all organizations take some time off on this day to play or use it as an opportunity for a dose of fun learning, training or staff development.	In addition the Founder hopes that as adults see the benefits of taking a break there will be a return of Recess in schools.
noLabel	Das Gupta observed that the preference for boys and the resulting shortage of girls was even more pronounced in the more highly developed Haryana and Punjab regions of India than in poorer areas, and also the high prevalence of this prejudice among the more educated and affluent women (mothers) there.	Contrary to the conventional wisdom expectations, in India there are more missing women in developed urban areas, than in backward rural regions.
noLabel	Showing position of disagreement, the transport minister Makis Voridis from the Popular Orthodox Rally party, along with five deputy ministers from various ministries, decided to resign .	On 11 February, caretaker prime minister Lucas Papademos warned of "social explosion and chaos" if the parliament would not approve the deal the next day.
noLabel	U.S. President Barack Obama's American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 included more than $70 billion in direct spending and tax credits for clean energy and associated transportation programs.	Clean Edge suggests that the commercialization of clean energy has helped countries around the world pull out of the 2009 global financial crisis .
noLabel	Engaging in marital relations at an infertile time in a woman's life (such as pregnancy or post-menopause) is also considered acceptable, since the infertile condition is considered to be created by God, rather than as an act by the couple.	 Similarly, under Catholic theology, it may be morally acceptable to abstain during the fertile part of the woman's menstrual cycle .
noLabel	An example is the display of "gibs" (short for giblets), little bits or giant chunks of internal organs, flesh, and bone, when a character is killed .	This was prominently featured in and popularized by games such as Doom, Manhunt, Mortal Kombat and Conker's Bad Fur Day, and, more recently, Gears of War, Fallout 3 and Left 4 Dead 2.
noLabel	Political scientist Rand Dyck, in observing these criticisms, notes that while judges have had their scope of review widened, they have still upheld most laws challenged on Charter grounds.	With regard to litigious interest groups, Dyck points out that "the record is not as clear as Morton and Knopff imply.
noLabel	The  (Central Jewish Committee) released a statement on March 28, 2008, condemning the film for reinforcing prejudices by implying that all Muslims are terrorists.	The Committee said that the portrayal of Muslims in this manner is counterproductive, and that the Dutch Jewish community, along with the Dutch Muslim community and all of Dutch society, has a duty to combat all religious-based terrorrism, and to protect everyone against those who wish to overthrow democracy or promote religious hatred . 
noLabel	Although there are different opinions among Islamic scholars about when life begins and when abortion is permissible, most agree that the termination of a pregnancy after 120 days&nbsp;– the point at which, in Islam, a fetus is thought to become a living soul&nbsp;– is not permissible .	Several Islamic thinkers contend that in cases prior to four months of gestation, abortion should be permissible only in instances in which the mother's life is in danger or in cases of rape .
noLabel	Thus, morality is created in the construction of social order, assigning costs and consequences to certain choices and defining some as evil, immoral and/or illegal.	Although Travis Hirschi was not the first to propose a social control theory, the Causes of Delinquency (1969) was a landmark book, contrasting with the Strain Theory (see anomie and the work of Robert King Merton) and Conflict Theory.
noLabel	As of 2007, crude oil prices were significantly in excess of the average cost of production, which was about $28 per barrel of bitumen.	However, bitumen production costs are rising rapidly, with production cost increases of 55% from 2005 to 2007, due to shortages of labor and materials . 
noLabel	In fact, a secret meeting of the Gray Commission's executive committee had occurred on May 27 which Representative Howard W. Smith, Representative Watkins Moorman Abbitt, Representative Burr Harrison, Tuck, and other outsiders had attended .	The group approved of Stanley's March 9 proposal to cut off all state funds for any school district which integrated, and discussed a number of other proposals (including a pupil assignment plan, whether to require local approval of integration or local approval of taxes to support integration, and repeal of state laws permitting school districts to be sued) .
noLabel	Republic of Serbia is committed to a peaceful resolution of all conflicts, and calls on both sides to stop the attacks which cause a humanitarian catastrophe.	" President of the National Assembly Slavica Đukić Dejanović accepted a proposal of the Greek Parliament President for a regional conference aimed at ending the escalating violence in the Middle East .
noLabel	Opposition leader Tzipi Livni said that the coalition and the opposition are united in support of the defense forces, and that she is ready to assist the government in the political and explanatory aspects of the flotilla incident .	She, however, disagreed with what she considered Netanyahu's lack of policy: "The world is certainly hypocritical, but that doesn't absolve us from forming a policy.
noLabel	Petroleum is of central importance to modern armies, and the United States—as the world's leading oil producer at that time—supplied most of the oil for the Allied armies.	Many U.S. strategists were concerned that the war would dangerously reduce the U.S. oil supply, and so they sought to establish good relations with Saudi Arabia, a kingdom with large oil reserves . 
noLabel	This is an important principle for the purpose of determining harm which only manifests gradually over time, such that the resulting harm can be anticipated, but does not yet exist at the time that the action causing harm was taken.	It also can be applied to a wide range of issues ranging from the right of an entity to discharge broadly polluting waste on private property to broad questions of licensing, and even to the right of sedition.
noLabel	More recent scholarship has made the case that deterrence theory is logically inconsistent, not empirically accurate and deficient as a theory.	In place of classical deterrence, rational choice scholars have argued for "perfect deterrence," which assumes that states may vary in their internal characteristics and especially in the credibility of their threats of retaliation . 
noLabel	The argument from inconsistent revelations contests the existence of the deity called God as described in scriptures—such as the Jewish Tanakh, the Christian Bible, the Muslim Qur'an, Hindu Vedas, the Book of Mormon or the Baha'i Aqdas—by identifying apparent contradictions between different scriptures, within a single scripture, or between scripture and known facts.	To be effective this argument requires the other side to hold that its scriptural record is inerrant, or at least to assert that a proper understanding of scripture gives rise to knowledge of God's existence. 
noLabel	The United States Constitutional Convention (also known as the Philadelphia Convention, and various other names) took place from May 14 to September 17, 1787, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and although the Convention was purportedly intended only to revise the Articles of Confederation, the intention from the outset of many of its proponents, chief among them James Madison and Alexander Hamilton, was to create a new government rather than fix the existing one.	Due to the difficulty of travel in the late 18th century, very few of the selected delegates were present on the designated day of May 14, 1787, and it was not until May 25 that a quorum of seven states was secured.
noLabel	In the general principle of international law, treaties in force are binding upon the parties to it and must be performed in good faith.	Countries that have ratified the Refugee Convention are obliged to protect refugees that are on their territory, in accordance with its terms . 
noLabel	According to Young, the tendency to look with mistrust upon political power was so ingrained into American culture that even the officeholders themselves perceived their occupations in a disparaging light .	James Fenimore Cooper, the novelist, described the common view that "contact with the affairs of state is one of the most corrupting of the influences to which men are exposed.
noLabel	" The court found "Pennsylvania law permits a cause of action for wrongful discharge where the employment termination abridges a significant and recognized public policy.	" Subsequently, however, the Pennsylvania courts rejected the Third Circuit's reasoning, "believing that you can't claim wrongful discharge under a provision of the Constitution unless you can show state action," which is impossible where the employer is a private enterprise .
noLabel	The brutal campaign of ethnic cleansing of Muslims in Arakan State by the Burmese military in 1991-92 thousands of people have been detained in crowded refugee camps in Bangladesh and tens of thousands have been repatriated to Burma to face further repression.	There are widespread allegations of religious persecution, use of forced labor and denial of citizenship of many Rohingya forced to return to Burma since 1996. 
noLabel	The Lance missiles were purchased in 1975, to replace Honest John missiles which had been bought in 1960; and were themselves a replacement for the US Corporal missiles deployed in Germany by the Royal Artillery.	Not generally recognised is the fact that the Royal Artillery deployed a numerically greater quantity of US nuclear weapons than the RAF and Royal Navy combined, peaking at 277 in 1976-78; with a further 50 ADMs deployed with another British Army unit, the Royal Engineers, peaking in 1971-81 .
noLabel	After 54 days of filibuster, Senators Everett Dirksen (R-IL), Thomas Kuchel (R-CA), Hubert Humphrey (D-MN), and Mike Mansfield (D-MT) introduced a substitute bill that they hoped would attract enough Republican swing votes to end the filibuster.	The compromise bill was weaker than the House version in regard to government power to regulate the conduct of private business, but it was not so weak as to cause the House to reconsider the legislation . 
noLabel	The 1997 Law on Refugees defines the term “refugee” as “A person who is outside his/her country of nationality or habitual residence; has a well-founded fear of persecution because of his/her race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group or political opinion; and is unable or unwilling to avail himself/herself of the protection of that country, or to return there, for fear of persecution” .	The individual seeking asylum must satisfy the requirements set forth in the definition of “refugee” in order to obtain asylum in Russia.
noLabel	These reviews look at how members are putting into practice the policy work carried out by the DAC, and how they are responding to international commitments and to their own national goals.	These reviews are designed to encourage positive change, support mutual learning and raise the overall effectiveness of aid throughout the donor community. 
noLabel	DOE selected six companies for its 2007 Green Power Supplier Awards, including Constellation NewEnergy; 3Degrees; Sterling Planet; SunEdison; Pacific Power and Rocky Mountain Power; and Silicon Valley Power.	The combined green power provided by those six winners equals more than 5 billion kilowatt-hours per year, which is enough to power nearly 465,000 average U.S. households. 
noLabel	The current position is that council housing is a more and more residualised and stigmatised sector, with the term 'council' increasingly used as a pejorative.	Whereas in its early years, council housing was an acceptable option for much of the population, it is now increasingly an option only for those reliant on social security. 
noLabel	During a demonstration at a checkpoint between Israel and the West Bank, which involved stone-throwing by Palestinian youths, Israeli soldiers fired tear gas canisters at demonstrators.	An art student from New York, who according to a witness was not involved in any violence, lost an eye when one of the canisters fractured parts of her skull . 
noLabel	Students who choose a vocational program normally terminate their education after gymnasieskolan while students who complete a university-preparatory program normally enroll in higher education at a university or university college.	Students who complete a vocational program can enroll in higher education, but may need to take additional courses before being eligible to apply. 
noLabel	Thus, when introducing the fighters, the announcer frequently added the phrase "Both members of this club", as George Wesley Bellows titled one of his paintings .	The western region of the United States tended to be more tolerant of prizefights in this era, although the private club arrangement was standard practice here as well, San Francisco's California Athletic Club being a prominent example . 
noLabel	The argument is that, in equilibrium, total income (and thus demand) must equal total output, and that total investment must equal total saving.	Assuming that saving rises faster as a function of income than the relationship between investment and output, then an increase in the marginal propensity to save, ceteris paribus, will move the equilibrium point at which income equals output and investment equals savings to lower values. 
noLabel	In the 1930s, it was already known that the testes contain a more powerful androgen than androstenone, and three groups of scientists, funded by competing pharmaceutical companies in the Netherlands, Germany, and Switzerland, raced to isolate it .	This hormone was first identified by Karoly Gyula David, E. Dingemanse, J. Freud and Ernst Laqueur in a May 1935 paper "On Crystalline Male Hormone from Testicles (Testosterone).
noLabel	The OSI hoped that the usage of the label "open source," a term suggested by Peterson of the Foresight Institute at the strategy session, would eliminate ambiguity, particularly for individuals who perceive "free software" as anti-commercial.	They sought to bring a higher profile to the practical benefits of freely available source code, and they wanted to bring major software businesses and other high-tech industries into open source.
noLabel	The modern day sharing of nuclear technology with Iran, Libya, North Korea and possibly other regimes on the part of Abdul Qadeer Khan has yet to be fully explored.	It is an open question whether the term "atom spy" will be applied to those operating outside the Cold War period, such as Khan and Argentine-American physicist Leonardo Mascheroni. 
noLabel	In the U.S., Canada, and Europe, illicit steroids are sometimes purchased just as any other illegal drug, through dealers who are able to obtain the drugs from a number of sources.	Illegal anabolic steroids are sometimes sold at gyms and competitions, and through the mail, but may also be obtained through pharmacists, veterinarians, and physicians .
noLabel	Boat people is a term that usually refers to refugees, illegal immigrants, or asylum seekers who emigrate in numbers in boats that are sometimes old and crudely made.	The term came into common use during the late 1970s with the mass departure of Vietnamese refugees from Communist-controlled Vietnam, following the Vietnam War.
noLabel	The New Zealand Royal Commission on the Electoral System listed ten criteria for their evaluation of possible new electoral systems for New Zealand.	These included fairness between political parties, effective representation of minority or special interest groups, political integration, effective voter participation and legitimacy.
noLabel	Representative Dennis Kucinich (Democrat) of Ohio said "These documents provide a fuller picture of what we have long known about Afghanistan: The war is going badly.	We have to show the ability to respond to what’s right in front of our face: This war is no longer justifiable under any circumstances.
noLabel	Notable for a lack of republication of the cartoons were most major newspapers in Canada, the USA and the United Kingdom, where editorials covered the story without including them.	Several newspapers were closed and editors fired or arrested for their decision or intention to re-publish the cartoons, including the shutting down of a 60 year old Malaysian newspaper permanently.
noLabel	Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying "Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia condemns attacks in the Gaza Strip, and calls for calming of military actions in which guiltless civilians are killed.	The Republic of Serbia welcomes the decision of the U.N. Security Council and joins in with the rest of the world in condemning the violence in the Middle East.
noLabel	The attitude of the service was always primarily driven by the practicalities of law enforcement rather than by the abstract ideas of social engineering that provided the sub-text of the 1905 and 1960s Acts.	The Service’s political masters were more ambiguous in their aims and unsure of what immigration control was for and what it was they wanted to achieve.
noLabel	In 2007, a study ordered by the U.S. Congress found that middle school students who took part in abstinence-only sex education programs were just as likely to have sex (and use contraception) in their teenage years as those who did not .	Abstinence-only advocates claimed that the study was flawed because it was too narrow and began when abstinence-only curricula were in their infancy, and that other studies have demonstrated positive effects .
noLabel	The percentage share of total income owned by the top 1% fell to 16% during the post-911 recession but then re-rose to its 1998 level by 2008.	In 2008, the wealth gap in terms of percentage of total income in the United States between the top 1% and 5% was 7% and the gap between the top 1% and top 10% was 9%.
noLabel	Finally, coercive credibility requires that, in addition to calculations about costs and benefits of cooperation, the defending state convincingly conveys to the attacking state that non-cooperation has consequences.	Threats, uses of force, and other coercive instruments (such as economic sanctions) must be sufficiently credible in order to raise the attacking state's perceived costs of noncompliance.
noLabel	The Jewish communities were also systematically deceived about German intentions, and were cut off from most sources of news from the outside world.	The Germans told the Jews that they were being deported to work campseuphemistically calling it "resettlement in the East"and maintained this illusion through elaborate deceptions all the way to the gas chamber doors (which were marked with labels stating that the chambers were for removal of lice) to avoid uprisings.
noLabel	Kent R. Weaver argues that most scholars cite the Social Security Act of 1935 as the origin of the American welfare state .	This New Deal reform enacted a wide expanse of services for the poor and financially stressed, including: unemployment benefits, Aid to Families with Dependent Children (later replaced in by the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families program under the Clinton Administration), retirement income stipends, subsidized housing, and many others . 
noLabel	In the 19th century smoking was common as a symbol of simple pleasures; the pipe smoking "noble savage", solemn contemplation by Classical Roman ruins, scenes of an artists becoming one with nature while slowly toking a pipe.	The newly empowered middle class also found a new dimension of smoking as a harmless pleasure enjoyed in smoking saloons and libraries.
noLabel	For example, a tax on coal that included the increased health care costs associated with breathing polluted air, the costs of acid rain damage, and the costs of climate disruption would encourage investment in renewable technologies.	Several Western European countries are already shifting taxes in a process known there as environmental tax reform, to achieve environmental goals . 
noLabel	The goal in deterrence is to always maintain a second strike capability (the ability of a country to respond to a nuclear attack with one of its own) and potentially to strive for first strike status (the ability to completely destroy an enemy's nuclear forces before they could retaliate).	During the Cold War, policy and military theorists in nuclear-enabled countries worked out models of what sorts of policies could prevent one from ever being attacked by a nuclear weapon. 
noLabel	A 2009 CNN poll found even lower levels of support for gun laws: in this poll, only 39% favored more restrictive laws.	The poll indicates that the drop in support (compared to 2001 polls) came from self-identified Independents, with levels of opposition among Democrats and Republicans remaining consistent . 
noLabel	The parentSally Relph, 47, receptionist and parent: The long summer break has never been a problem for me because I'm separated from my husband so my two children spend some time with me and some time with him.	But school holidays are so expensive; travel agents put up prices terrifically, and local entertainment is also expensive, although luckily my children have a good group of friends and they spend a lot of time at each other's houses.
noLabel	But no one should be beaten or killed or imprisoned simply for speaking their mind or praying to one god as opposed to the other or none at all or getting on with the small business of living their life in peaceful fashion.	If we cannot or will not defend that principle with a full throat, then we deserve to choke on whatever jihadists of all stripes can force down our throats.
noLabel	The first use in American literature of the concept of immigrants "melting" into the receiving culture are found in the writings of J. Hector St. John de Crevecoeur.	In his Letters from an American Farmer (1782) Crevecoeur writes, in response to his own question, "What then is the American, this new man?"
noLabel	Sachs believes the public sector should focus mainly on investments in human capital (health, education, nutrition), infrastructure (roads, power, water and sanitation, environmental conservation), natural capital (conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems), public institutional capital (a well-run public administration, judicial system, police force), and parts of knowledge capital (scientific research for health, energy, agriculture, climate, ecology) .	Sachs leaves business capital investments to the private sector, which would more efficiently use funding to develop the profitable enterprises necessary to sustain growth.
noLabel	The amount of water usage is often of great concern for electricity generating systems as populations increase and droughts become a concern.	Still, according to the U.S. Geological Survey, thermoelectric power generation accounts for only 3.3 percent of net freshwater consumption with over 80 percent going to irrigation.
noLabel	The latter includes innovations such as the use of 3D characters on pre-rendered backgrounds, battles viewed from multiple different angles rather than a single angle, and for the first time full-motion CGI video seamlessly blended into the gameplay, effectively integrated throughout the game .	The game was soon ported to the PC and gained much success there, as did several other originally console RPGs, blurring the line between the console and computer platforms .
noLabel	U.S. tax rules let companies defer paying corporate rates as high as 35 percent on most types of foreign profits as long as that money remains invested overseas.	President Obama says he wants to end such incentives to keep foreign profits tax-deferred so that companies would invest them in the U.S . 
noLabel	In particularly sunny regions such as Spain, the Middle East, North Africa, the southern USA, India, and parts of China, modern solar modules are close to achieving grid parity.	And in countries situated further to the north such as Germany, France, and the Czech Republic, grid parity is expected by 2015 . 
noLabel	Both the floor of the reservoir and the bund must have an impermeable lining or core, often made of puddled clay.	The water stored in such reservoirs may have a residence time of several months during which time normal biological processes are able to substantially reduce many contaminants and almost eliminate any turbidity.
noLabel	Australia, Canada, Pakistan, India, Ireland, United Kingdom and Norway are examples of countries with two strong parties and additional smaller parties that have also obtained representation.	The smaller or "third" parties may form a part of a coalition government together with one of the larger parties or act independently from the other dominant parties. 
noLabel	For example, it is much easier to replace a truck driver than to replace the quarterback of a professional football team or the writer for a hit comedy show, so the returns to a strike by professional athletes or writers are likely to be much greater than the returns to a strike by truck drivers.	Accordingly, those who benefit most are highly skilled workers—individuals who would normally not be the beneficiaries of social wealth redistribution schema. 
noLabel	Trade Unions .. constitute an aristocracy of labour who .. a hindrance to that complete organisation of the proletariat which alone can obtain for the workers their proper control over their own labour ..	Being also .. unsectarian and unpolitical, they prevent any organised attempt being made by the workers as a class to form a definite party of their own, apart from existing factions, with a view to dominate the social conditions – a victory which .. can only be gained by resolute political action.
noLabel	Multiculturalism is seen by its supporters as a fairer system that allows people to truly express who they are within a society, that is more tolerant and that adapts better to social issues .	They argue that culture is not one definable thing based on one race or religion, but rather the result of multiple factors that change as the world changes. 
noLabel	According to the report, "the Burmese military regime is allowing its troops systematically and on a widespread scale to commit rape with impunity in order to terrorize and subjugate the ethnic peoples of Shan State."	Furthermore, the report states that "25% of the rapes resulted in death, in some incidences with bodies being deliberately displayed to local communities.
noLabel	It also comes a day after detained pro-democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi met with a military officer for talks .	State Councilor for China Tang Jiaxuan told Gambari of the UN, who is expected to return to Burma in early November that words were the way forward.
noLabel	In his lectures, called "Bursting at the Seams", he featured an integrated approach that would deal with a number of problems associated with overpopulation and poverty reduction.	For example, when criticized for advocating mosquito nets he argued that child survival was, "by far one of the most powerful ways," to achieve fertility reduction, as this would assure poor families that the smaller number of children they had would survive .
noLabel	Asked why she initially supported the bridge, Palin's communications director Bill McAllister said, "It was never at the top of her priority list, and in fact the project isn't necessarily dead … there's still the potential for improved ferry service or even a bridge of a less costly design".	She changed her mind, he said, when "she saw that Alaska was being perceived as taking from the country and not giving" . 
noLabel	Tell them a good coach will be able to advise on general fitness and exercising safely, as well as giving support on improving specific skills.	Students can be encouraged to coach each other, perhaps with the help of a video camera to break down techniques and skills.
noLabel	Historically, crime statistics have played a central role in the discussion of the relationship between race and crime in the United States .	As they have been designed to record information not only on the kinds of crimes committed, but also on the individuals involved in crime, criminologists and sociologists have and continue to use crime rate statistics to make general statements regarding the racial demographics of crime-related phenomena such as victimization, arrests, prosecutions, convictions, and incarceration.
noLabel	The first part of the Summa is summed up in the premise that God governs the world as the "universal first cause".	God sways the intellect; he gives the power to know and impresses the species intelligibiles on the mind, and he sways the will in that he holds the good before it as aim, creating the virtus volendi.
noLabel	The Broadcast Advertising Clearance Centre pre-approves most British television advertising (under Ofcom rules, other broadcasters can also approve their own advertising content, but most rely on the BACC).	The Advertising Standards Authority is the regulatory advertising body, but can only prevent the republication of advertisements after upholding complaints from the general public. 
noLabel	The Danish Union of Journalists and Kurt Westergaard described the use of the cartoon in the film as a "grave violation of Westergaard's author's right (copyright)" .	The Danish Union of Journalists and Westergaard sued Wilders, and in September 2008 Wilders agreed to pay Westergaard 7500 euros for using the cartoon without permission .
noLabel	Mao was seven months pregnant with her fourth child at the time of the appeal hearing, when the judge reportedly told her that if she terminated this third pregnancy he would rule in her favour.	Concerned for the welfare of her existing family, Mao terminated her pregnancy against her wishes, but still the court ruled against her, apparently because she had taken sixteen days of "unauthorized leave" from work, and also for her original violation of family planning policies. 
noLabel	Others have pointed out that schools can be designed to be non-coercive and cooperative, in a manner consistent with the philosophies behind unschooling.	Sudbury model schools are evidence of schools that are non-coercive, non-indoctrinative, cooperative, democratically run partnerships between children and adults, including full parents' partnership, where learning is individualized and child-led, and complement home education .
noLabel	Dry earth is a reasonably good thermal insulator, and over several weeks of habitation, a shelter will become too hot for comfort.	The simplest form of effective fan to cool a shelter is a wide, heavy frame with flaps that swing in the shelter's doorway and can be swung from hinges on the ceiling.
noLabel	An additional $450 billion will be invested to expand this fledgling system over the next 20 years to meet increasing demand .	In addition, this centralized system is now being further overtaxed with the incorporation of renewable energies such as wind, solar, and geothermal energies.
noLabel	McNeill states that the ideal of homogeneous societies may have grown between 1750 and 1920 in Western Europe due to a growth in the belief in a single nationalistic base for the political organization of society.	McNeill believes that World War I was the point in time when the desire for homogeneous nations began to weaken .
noLabel	While the Thai constitution provides for freedom of expression, in fact freedom of expression in Thailand is extremely limited and widely subject to state monitoring, interjection and criminal prosecution.	The state of Thai censorship of freedom of expression expanded considerably after the 2006 military coup, and has continued despite international condemnation.
noLabel	Among some individuals, poverty is considered a necessary or desirable condition, which must be embraced to reach certain spiritual, moral, or intellectual states.	Poverty is often understood to be an essential element of renunciation in religions such as Buddhism (only for monks, not for lay persons) and Jainism, whilst in Roman Catholicism it is one of the evangelical counsels. 
noLabel	Despite the high productivity of the war industries based in the Jewish ghettos in the General Government, during 1943 they were liquidated, and their populations shipped to the camps for extermination.	The largest of these operations, the deportation of 100,000 people from the Warsaw Ghetto in early 1943, provoked the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, which was suppressed with great brutality.
noLabel	In response, in June 2002, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops initiated strict new guidelines ("zero tolerance") for the protection of children and youth in Catholic institutions across the country.	The Vatican revisited the issue of homosexuality and a gay subculture within the clergy, because the vast majority of the cases consisted of males preying on male adolescents (over 90% of the sexual abuse victims were teenage boys rather than girls or prepubescents) .
noLabel	The President's address was rescheduled to September 8 after his original request to deliver the speech on September 7 was rebuffed by Speaker of the House John Boehner, who cited a clash with a Republican Presidential debate already scheduled for the same time and stated that more time was required to secure the House for the President's visit .	The President made his speech at 7:00pm Eastern, instead of the usual 9:00pm start for presidential addresses to joint sessions of Congress, so he would be finished before the first game of the National Football League season between the New Orleans Saints and the Green Bay Packers at 8:30pm . 
noLabel	On January 11, 2002, upholding a decision by Oregon Circuit Court Judge Richard D. Barber, the Oregon Supreme Court ruled that enactment of Measure 3 had violated Article XVII, section 1, of the Oregon Constitution which prohibits multiple constitutional amendments combined in a single measure.	Again, the court refrained from addressing the broader issue of term limits themselves, confining itself to the matter of their having been enacted in violation of the "separate vote" provision of Oregon's constitution .
noLabel	The Israeli historian Saul Friedländer writes that, for the Nazis, Germany drew its strength for its "purity of blood" and its "rootedness in the sacred German earth.	" On April 1, 1933, there occurred boycott of Jewish businesses, which was the first national anti-Semitic campaign, initially planned for a week, but called off after one day owing to lack of popular support.
noLabel	The development of the first prototypes and the experimental work started in early 1943, at the time when the Los Alamos Design Laboratory became operational in the framework of the Manhattan Project.	Originally gun-type designs were pursued for both a uranium and plutonium weapon (the "Thin Man" design), but in April 1944 it was discovered that the spontaneous fission rate for plutonium was too great to use in a gun-type weapon.
noLabel	After British scientists demonstrated to the United States in fall 1957, however, that they had developed a Teller-Ulam design different from American methods and thus understood how to build a hydrogen bomb, the 1958 US-UK Mutual Defence Agreement made fully developed and tested American designs available more quickly and more cheaply.	The first of these was the US B28 nuclear bomb, which was anglicised and manufactured in the UK as Red Snow and quickly deployed as Yellow Sun Mk.2 in the V-bomber fleet.
noLabel	In fact the Court only found a state guilty of torture in 1996 in the case of a detainee who was suspended by his arms whilst his hands were tied behind his back .	Since then the Court has appeared to be more open to finding states guilty of torture and has even ruled that since the Convention is a "living instrument", treatment which it had previously characterised as inhuman or degrading treatment might in future be regarded as torture .
noLabel	Although Penney believed that Britain could not afford to develop a hydrogen bomb, officials believed that possessing the more powerful weapon would cause the United States to continue to view Britain as a "great power".	The Churchill ministry decided on 27 July 1954 to begin development of a thermonuclear bomb and announced its plans in February 1955. 
noLabel	The unauthorized logging of these precious woods was banned from sensitive regions (such as national parks) and their adjoining areas in November 2000 with the passing of Order 12704/2000 .	The law was subsequently amended repeatedly, with orders and memorandums oscillating between permission and bans for the export of logs, semi-finished wood (i.e.
noLabel	Absorbent mind: Montessori described the young child's behavior of effortlessly assimilating the sensorial stimuli of his or her environment, including information from the senses, language, culture, and the development of concepts with the term "absorbent mind".	She believed that this is a power unique to the first plane, and that it fades as the child approached age six . 
noLabel	In April 2011, rating agency Standard & Poor's (S&P) issued a "negative" outlook on the U.S. "AAA" (highest quality) debt rating for the first time since the rating agency began in 1860, indicating there is a one in three chance of an outright reduction in the rating over the next two years.	According to S&P, meaningful progress towards balancing the budget would be required to move the U.S. back to a "stable" outlook.
noLabel	Election turnout in Sweden has always been high by international comparison, although it has declined in recent decades, and is currently around 80% (80.11 in 2002, and 81.99% in 2006).	Swedish politicians enjoyed a high degree of confidence from the citizens in the 1960s, However, that confidence level has since declined steadily, and is now at a markedly lower level than in its Scandinavian neighbours . 
noLabel	The decisive Greek victory at Plataea put an end to the Greco-Persian War along with Persian ambition of expanding into Europe.	Even though this war was won by a pan-Greek army, credit was given to Sparta, who besides being the protagonist at Thermopylae and Plataea, had been the de facto leader of the entire Greek expedition . 
noLabel	The primary issue; language, (hence, communication and education) can be overcome within a single generation - as is evident in the easy acclimation of children of foreign parents.	English, for example, is spoken by more non-Anglo-American people than Anglo-Americans, making it the current lingua-franca, the worldwide de facto standard international language.
noLabel	The progrmas should be linked with programs that support labor market insertion and employment to provide incentives for graduation and opportunities for moving out of poverty.	For example, Chile’s Programa Puente targets the 100,000 poorest and most excluded families in urban areas and provides beneficiaries with the support of a social worker for two years.
noLabel	During the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990's, the US opposed Serbia, a country that was not against the US and capitalist ideals during the Cold War and an ally during both World Wars in which the Serbs saved the lives of many American pilots who flew missions over the Balkans.	Instead, the US supported Kosovo Albanians and Croatians, both who were never true allies of the US and had even fought against the US during World War 2.
noLabel	Thereafter, they continue along the same routes as thousands of illegal migrants, arriving at one of the Greek islands by speedboat or crossing the Greco-Turkish land border.	From Greece, Iraqis generally travel on before making an asylum claim, either to the northern European countries, or to Madrid from where the USA or Latin America can be reached .
noLabel	One major benefit of online advertising is the immediate publishing of information and content that is not limited by geography or time.	To that end, the emerging area of interactive advertising presents fresh challenges for advertisers who have hitherto adopted an interruptive strategy. 
noLabel	Traditionally, metzitzah was accomplished through oral suction, known as "metzitzah b'peh" ["via the mouth"], most likely as this was the best technique available.	Beginning in around the 18th Century, however, it was known that this technique itself can spread infection (ironically, prevention of which was the very reason metzitzah was instituted) and harm the baby.
noLabel	Tobacco was widely diffused among all of the islands of the Caribbean and therefore they again encountered it in Cuba where Columbus and his men had settled .	His sailors reported that the Taínos on the island of Cuba smoked a primitive form of cigar, with twisted, dried tobacco leaves rolled in other leaves such as palm or plantain. 
noLabel	Other common iconic presences, especially of monarchs, are on coins, stamps and banknotes; more discreet variations see them represented by a mention and/or signature.	Furthermore, various institutions, monuments and the like, are named for current or previous heads of state, such as streets and squares, schools, charitable and other organizations; in monarchies (e.g.
noLabel	Chavez accused Israel of "flagrant violations of International Law" and stated that the Israeli and American presidents be tried at the International Criminal Court.	Venezuela expelled Israel's ambassador to Venezuela and part of the embassy personnel, and Hugo Chávez called for Ehud Olmert to be tried for war crimes . 
noLabel	People with different levels of ethnocultural empathy were also reported to respond distinctively to individuals who are similar with themselves and those who are not.	For example, people with higher level of enthnocultural empathy had been found to work more successfully with individuals from other cultures . 
noLabel	Still others were the subject of one or two tests but were not explored further for reasons that have never been explained.	Overall, the program represented a significant technical effort to explore what was seen at the time to be a promising new technology, and it generated a large body of data, although only a small fraction of it has been made public.
noLabel	The Obama administration, in response to the leaks, re-expressed their long-held doubts about links between Pakistan intelligence agents and Afghan insurgents.	An anonymous official said to Al Arabiya, "I don't think anyone who follows this issue will find it surprising that there are concerns about ISI and safe havens in Pakistan .
noLabel	On November 7, 2011, several thousand environmentalist supporters, some shouldering a long black inflatable replica of a pipeline, formed a human chain around the White House to try to convince Barack Obama to block the controversial Keystone XL project.	Organiser Bill McKibben said, "this has become not only the biggest environmental flash point in many, many years, but maybe the issue in recent times in the Obama administration when he's been most directly confronted by people in the street.
noLabel	A 2005 review determined that some, but not all, randomized controlled studies have found that anabolic steroid use correlates with hypomania and increased aggressiveness, but pointed out that attempts to determine whether AAS use triggers violent behaviour have failed, primarily because of high rates of non-participation .	A 2008 study on a nationally representative sample of young adult males in the United States found an association between lifetime and past-year self-reported anabolic-androgenic steroid use and involvement in violent acts.
noLabel	Deprived of any military capability after 1945, the nation had only occupation forces and a minor domestic police force on which to rely for security.	Rising Cold War tensions in Europe and Asia, coupled with leftist-inspired strikes and demonstrations in Japan, prompted some conservative leaders to question the unilateral renunciation of all military capabilities.
noLabel	In the process of arguing how to instill these principles, he makes an extended argument on how punishment should be used in the schools.	In this section, Durkheim described Tolstoy’s theory as an example of a philosophy of education that doesn’t seem to use punishment as a mechanism of cultural solidarity formation and transmission: . 
noLabel	Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) President Eisaku Satō was elected Prime Minister in December 1964 (only a month after China revealed its nuclear weapons capability with a test explosion).	Although privately supportive of Japanese nuclearization, circumstances led Prime Minister Satō to first articulate the now-standard Three Non-Nuclear Principles, and he is remembered for his contributions to non-proliferation.
noLabel	India tested fission and perhaps fusion devices in 1998 (See Shakti), and Pakistan successfully tested fission devices that same year (See Chagai-I), raising concerns that they would use nuclear weapons on each other.	All of the former Soviet bloc countries with nuclear weapons (Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan) returned their warheads to Russia by 1996. 
noLabel	The war logs made clear that suicide bombing, normally carried out by non-Afghan, foreign fighters, was increasing and claim that they were nurtured by al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden, whose influence was pervasive and possibly growing.	A report generated September 2004 stated that terrorists had been assigned by Bin Laden to conduct a suicidal attack against the Afghan president Hamid Karzai, during a press conference or a meeting held.
noLabel	Some would also point out that privatizing certain functions of government might hamper coordination, and charge firms with specialized and limited capabilities to perform functions which they are not suited for.	In rebuilding a war torn nation's infrastructure, for example, a private firm would, in order to provide security, either have to hire security, which would be both necessarily limited and complicate their functions, or coordinate with government, which, due to a lack of command structure shared between firm and government, might be difficult.
noLabel	Even in more traditional forms such as prose, some authors, such as Cory Doctorow, retain the copyright to their work but license it for free distribution (for example under a Creative Commons licenses).	This has the benefit of providing a structured scheme under which authors can loosen some of the barriers that copyright imposes on others, allowing them to partially contribute the work to the community (in the form of giving a general grant on copying, reproduction, use or adaptation subject to certain conditions) while retaining other exclusive rights they hold in it. 
noLabel	Many of the proposals center around a term limit for Justices that would be 18 years (Larry Sabato , Professor of Political Science at University of Virginia, suggested between 15 and 18 years) .	The proposed staggered term limits of 18 years would, according to Calebresi, Lindgren (2006) and Carrington (2005), allow for a new appointment to the Court every two years, which in effect would allow every President at least two appointments .
noLabel	So many of them were not legally protected, nor do they receive humanitarian support, as they fell outside the mandates of the support structures offered by government and non-government institutions.	In Botswana, Zambia and Malawi, asylum is available to Zimbabweans; in Mozambique, the few applicants for asylum had been rejected due to the state's decision to consider Zimbabweans as 'economic' and not forced humanitarian migrants. 
noLabel	It has also been alleged that the largely unsupervised electronic funds transfers inherent in online gambling are being exploited by criminal interests to launder large amounts of money .	However, according to a US GAO study, "Banking and gaming regulatory officials did not view Internet gambling as being particularly susceptible to money laundering, especially when credit cards, which create a transaction record and are subject to relatively low transaction limits, were used for payment.
noLabel	Other species were deliberately driven to extinction, or nearly so, due to poaching or because they were "undesirable", or to push for other human agendas.	One example was the near extinction of the American bison, which was nearly wiped out by mass hunts sanctioned by the United States government, in order to force the removal of Native Americans, many of whom relied on the bison for food . 
noLabel	They argue that this new ideal type of person and society can and should be engineered by all means available including using the mass media and primary schools to manufacture them "by design" (pp.&nbsp;389, 395).	Though they never cite them, Gudykunst and Kim's intercultural adaptation theory is not dissimilar to the Victorian Era ideology promoted in England for the betterment of that empire at home and abroad by Herbert Spencer, Francis Galton, and Karl Pearson.
noLabel	Illegal immigration occurs principally from countries with lower socio-economic circumstances to countries with higher socio-economic circumstances, where illegal immigrants perceive greater economic opportunities and quality of life.	This has typically been viewed as driving people from developing countries to developed countries but as economic conditions improve in a number of developing countries, illegal immigration to these more successful developing countries has also increased significantly . 
noLabel	The Times (UK) criticized the report as "provocative bias" and described as dangerous and unreasonable the moral equivalence drawn in the report between Israel and Hamas.	The Times praised Israel for quietly continuing to conduct its own investigation into the conflict despite the report, and concluded that Israel "is an accountable, democratic, transparent nation, and fighting to remain one amid challenges that few other nations ever have to face" . 
noLabel	The advantage is that the wind is much stronger off the coasts, and unlike wind over the continent, offshore breezes can be strong in the afternoon, matching the time when people are using the most electricity.	Offshore turbines can also be "located close to the power-hungry populations along the coasts, eliminating the need for new overland transmission lines" . 
noLabel	While majorities of citizens generally support the continued use of existing nuclear power reactors, most people do not favour the building of new nuclear plants, and 25% of respondents feel that all nuclear power plants should be closed down .	Stressing the climate change benefits of nuclear energy positively influences 10% of people to be more supportive of expanding the role of nuclear power in the world, but there is still a general reluctance to support the building of more nuclear power plants . 
noLabel	The Fetus and Newborn Committee of the Canadian Paediatric Society posted "Neonatal circumcision revisited" in 1996 and "Circumcision: Information for Parents" in November 2004.	The 1996 position statement says that "circumcision of newborns should not be routinely performed", and the 2004 information to parents says: 'Circumcision is a "non-therapeutic" procedure, which means it is not medically necessary.
noLabel	In 1991, South Africa acceded to the NPT, concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the IAEA, and submitted a report on its nuclear material subject to safeguards.	At the time, the state had a nuclear power programme producing nearly 10% of the country's electricity, whereas Iraq and North Korea only had research reactors. 
noLabel	In 2008, the ATF received 2 million USD to assist in the expansion of Spanish language eTrace software to Mexico and Central America region to assist them with firearms tracking issues, and their immediate goal is to deploy Spanish e-Trace software to all thirty-one states within Mexico .	ATF has provided Mexico (and Colombia) with its own centralized tracing center, staffed by nationals, with direct access to United States firearms transaction records maintained by the ATF National Tracing Center. 
noLabel	After his death, the union warned players to be extremely reluctant to use products containing ephedra, but it has resisted testing for amphetamines.	Sooner or later, it's going to get out that there's a greenie problem, and it's a huge one, said Gwynn, who became the baseball coach at San Diego State after completing a 20-year career in 2001.
noLabel	Israeli-Arab journalist Khaled Abu Toameh wrote in The Jerusalem Post that this practice led to the over-counting of civilian casualties and under-counting Hamas military casualties, as Palestinian casualties arrived at hospitals without weapons or any other signs revealing they were fighters .	Further difficulties were met with due to differing definitions of who should be counted as a combatant, and the lack of access to the conflict zone by independent media or human rights workers due to Israel's strict blockade of the borders before, during, and after the conflict . 
noLabel	Statements made in a good faith and reasonable belief that they were true are generally treated the same as true statements; however, the court may inquire into the reasonableness of the belief.	The degree of care expected will vary with the nature of the defendant: an ordinary person might safely rely on a single newspaper report, while the newspaper would be expected to carefully check multiple sources. 
noLabel	Although the negative health consequences of obesity in the general population are well supported by the available evidence, health outcomes in certain subgroups seem to be improved at an increased BMI, a phenomenon known as the obesity survival paradox .	The paradox was first described in 1999 in overweight and obese people undergoing hemodialysis, and has subsequently been found in those with heart failure and peripheral artery disease (PAD) . 
noLabel	Overall, the number of Americans aged 14 to 49 who tested positive for herpes 2 infection fell by a relative rate of 19 percent between 1988 and 2004—from 21 percent in the late 1980s and early 1990s to 17 percent 10 years later, the researchers reported.	The number of people aged 14 to 19 who tested positive for new herpes simplex 2 infections dropped from 5.8 percent in a 1988–1994 survey to just 1.6 percent 10 years later .
noLabel	Tribal kingship is often connected to sacral functions, so that the king acts as a priest, or is considered of Divine ancestry.	The sacral function of kingship was transformed into the notion of "Divine right of kings" in the Christian Middle Ages, while the Chinese, Japanese and Nepalese monarchs continued to be considered living Gods into the modern period. 
noLabel	When potential illegal immigrants believe the probability and benefits of successfully migrating to the destination country are greater than the costs, illegal immigration will then be an attractive option.	The benefits taken into account not only include expected improvements in pay and living conditions but also include expectations in relation to potential future immigration amnesty, where illegal immigration is given a path to naturalization or citizenship and also the rights to citizenship of future children are a consideration .
noLabel	In a German study of 12,970 13 to 19-year-olds, a quarter of the boys surveyed also said a standard condom was too large.	Other manufacturers, such as Durex, also produce smaller than average condoms such as Durex Love which is aimed at this end of the teenage market.
noLabel	Arbitrage betting is a theoretically risk-free betting system in which every outcome of an event is bet upon so that a known profit will be made by the bettor upon completion of the event, regardless of the outcome.	Arbitrage betting is a combination of the ancient art of arbitrage trading and gambling, which has been made possible by the large numbers of bookmakers in the marketplace, creating occasional opportunities for arbitrage.
noLabel	In the United States the Organized Crime Control Act (1970) defines organized crime as "The unlawful activities of [..] a highly organized, disciplined association [..]" .	Criminal activity as a structured group is referred to as racketeering and such crime is commonly referred to as the work of the Mob.
noLabel	Having been found to stand in breach of international labour law standards in general, and ECHR art 11 in particular, the UK government set about consulting on how to amend TULRCA 1992 to comply with the judgment, but with the objective of changing the law no further than absolutely necessary to comply with the ruling.	The result was the Employment Relations Act 2004, which changed, in particular, TULRCA 1992 section 146 to stipulate that all "workers" were protected by the provisions on detriment for union membership and activities.
noLabel	The whole discussion about energy supply creates incredibly high tempers and is a miasma of fact, theory, speculation, assumption and prejudice.	Wind power raises additional passions depending on whether or not the person concerned is going to be living within sight of the farms required to produce the energy, or of pylons used to transport it to the consumer.
noLabel	Recent, mild recessions have included the 1990–91 downturn, when output fell by 1.3%, and the 2001 recession, in which GDP slid by 0.3%; the 2001 downturn lasted just eight months .	The most vigorous, sustained periods of growth, on the other hand, took place from early 1961 to mid 1969, with an expansion of 53% (5.1% a year), from mid 1991 to late in 2000, at 43% (3.8% a year), and from late 1982 to mid 1990, at 37% (4% a year) . 
noLabel	Now as King Henry VII, Henry Tudor neutralised the remaining Yorkist forces, partly by marrying Elizabeth of York, a Yorkist heir.	Through skill and ability, Henry re-established absolute supremacy in the realm, and the conflicts with the nobility that had plagued previous monarchs came to an end .
noLabel	The tactic of letting guns walk, rather than interdicting them and arresting the buyers, led to controversy within the ATF .	As the case continued, several members of Group VII, including John Dodson and Olindo Casa, became increasingly upset at the tactic of allowing guns to walk.
noLabel	From February 29 to March 1, Israel mostly carried out airstrikes at ammo warehouses, rocket factories, rocket warehouses and launching cells, combined with small incursions close to the border.	Despite the IAF presence in the whole Gaza Strip and the IDF presence in the border areas, the Palestinian militants managed to fire more than 200 rockets during the operation, most of them at Sderot, but at least 20 at Ashkelon and 1 at Netivot. 
noLabel	|- The Iraqi government condemned the attack, stating that: "the Iraqi government demands a halt to the military operations, that civilians’ lives are not unnecessarily exposed to danger and requests that the international community honour its responsibilities and take the required measures to stop the attack" .	The Dawa Party of Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki called on Islamic countries to cut relations with Israel and end all "secret and public talks" with it .
noLabel	According to Jason Berry, Angelo Sodano "pressured" Cardinal Ratzinger, who was "operating on the assumption that the charges were not justified", to halt the proceedings against Maciel in 1999 When Maciel was honored by the Pope in 2004, new accusers came forward and Cardinal Ratzinger "took it on himself to authorize an investigation of Maciel" After Ratzinger became pope he began proceedings against Maciel and the Legion of Christ that forced Maciel out of active service in the church .	On 1 May 2010 the Vatican issued a statement denouncing Maciel's "very serious and objectively immoral acts", which were "confirmed by incontrovertible testimonies" and represent "true crimes and manifest a life without scruples or authentic religious sentiment."
noLabel	Analgesic drugs act in various ways on the peripheral and central nervous systems; they include paracetamol (para-acetylaminophenol, also known in the US as acetaminophen), the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as the salicylates, and opioid drugs such as hydrocodone, codeine, heroin and oxycodone.	Some further examples of the brand name prescription opiates and opioid analgesics that may be used recreationally include Vicodin, Lortab, Norco (hydrocodone), Avinza, Kapanol (morphine), Opana, Paramorphan (oxymorphone), Dilaudid, Palladone (hydromorphone), and OxyContin (oxycodone), kratom.
noLabel	Sellin's original ideas continued to be developed throughout the 20th century, most notably by George Vold in the 1950s and Austin Turk in the 1960s, and continue to influence the contemporary debate .	The recent work of Gregory J. Howard, Joshua D. Freilich and Graeme R. Newman applies culture conflict theory to the issue of immigrant and minority crime around the world.
noLabel	On the other end of the political spectrum Robespierre opposed a war on two grounds, fearing that it would strengthen the monarchy and military at the expense of the revolution, and that it would incur the anger of ordinary people in Austria and elsewhere.	The Austrian emperor Leopold II, brother of Marie Antoinette, may have wished to avoid war, but he died on 1 March 1792 .
noLabel	According to the Failing Gaza after one year report by Amnesty International and other organisations cement, glass, steel, bitumen, wood, paint, doors, plastic pipes, metal pipes, metal reinforcement rods, aggregate, generators, high voltage cables and wooden telegraph poles are "high priority reconstruction materials currently with no or highly limited entry into Gaza through official crossings.	" A 2009 UN report by Kevin M. Cahill called the restrictions "Draconian", and said that reconstruction is halted because Israel does not permit the importation of steel, cement or glass, among other building materials, and has restricted importation of lentils, pasta, tomato paste and juice, as well as batteries for hearing aids for deaf children.
noLabel	—Ex-Chief Justice Warren Burger, 1990 .Until recently, there had been only one modern Supreme Court case that dealt directly with the Second Amendment, United States v. Miller .	In that case, the Supreme Court did not address the incorporation issue, but the case instead hinged on whether a sawed-off shotgun "has some reasonable relationship to the preservation or efficiency of a well regulated militia.
noLabel	However, in an audience with Pope Benedict, Camillo Ruini, Vicar General of the Diocese of Rome and the official responsible for promoting the cause for canonization of any person who dies within that diocese, cited "exceptional circumstances" which suggested that the waiting period could be waived.	This happened before, when Pope Paul VI waived the five year rule and announced beatification processes for his predecessors, Pope Pius XII and Pope John XXIII.
noLabel	From 1987 to 1991, during the first intifada, Hamas campaigned for the wearing of the hijab alongside other measures, including insisting women stay at home be segregated from men, and the promotion of polygamy.	In the course of this campaign women who chose not to wear the hijab were verbally and physically harassed, with the result that the hijab was being worn 'just to avoid problems on the streets' . 
noLabel	This equilibrating behavior of free markets requires certain assumptions about their agents, collectively known as Perfect Competition, which therefore cannot be results of the market that they create.	Among these assumptions are several which are impossible to fully achieve in a real market, such as complete information, interchangeable goods and services, and lack of market power.
noLabel	Non-violent first-person shooter developers have expressed the notion that it is the challenge of making a non-violent game in a violent genre that motivates them in part .	Rarely, FPS games such as Garry's Mod and Portal that have been developed without the specific intent of non-violence have been identified by reviewers and the non-violent gaming community as non-violent FPSes .
noLabel	One of the most important roles of the modern head of state is being a living national symbol of the state; in monarchies this extends to the sovereign being a symbol of the unbroken continuity of the state.	For instance, the Canadian monarch is described by the government as being the personification of the Canadian state and is described by the Department of Canadian Heritage as the "personal symbol of allegiance, unity and authority for all Canadians" . 
noLabel	The Electoral Reform Society is a political pressure group based in the United Kingdom, believed to be the oldest organisation concerned with electoral systems in the world.	The Society advocates scrapping First Past the Post (FPTP) for all National and local elections arguing that the system is 'bad for voters, bad for government and bad for democracy'.
noLabel	The Goldstone Report wrote that the Mission was not in a position to state with certainty that DIME munitions were used by the Israeli armed forces, though it received reports from Palestinian and foreign doctors who had operated in Gaza during the military operations of a high percentage of patients with injuries compatible with their impact.	The report added that as it currently stands, DIME weapons and weapons armed with heavy metal are not prohibited under international law, but do raise specific health concerns .
noLabel	In a February 2009 poll conducted by Harris Interactive for France 24 and the International Herald Tribune, Obama was rated as the most respected world leader, as well as the most powerful .	In a similar poll conducted by Harris in May 2009, Obama was rated as the most popular world leader, as well as the one figure most people would pin their hopes on for pulling the world out of the economic downturn . 
noLabel	Polling can be set for inconvenient days such as midweek or on Holy Days (example: Sabbath or other holy days of a religious group whose teachings determine that voting is a prohibited on such a day) in order to make voting difficult for those studying or working away from home.	Communities may also be effectively disenfranchised if polling places are not provided within reasonable proximity (rural communities are especially vulnerable to this) or situated in areas perceived by some voters as unsafe. 
noLabel	The NRA has been criticized by other gun rights groups for doing too little to get existing restrictions repealed, and sometimes helping to draft restrictive legislation.	This critique is most often voiced by gun rights organizations and libertarians or conservatives who take a more comprehensive view of the Second Amendment and Bill of Rights, and are viewed as being less amenable to compromise on these issues, e.g.
noLabel	 The government of the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic condemned "in the strongest terms the abject and shameful attack of the Israeli army against the Flotilla of Freedom".	"By carrying out the bombing of a fleet carrying humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza, deprived of everything including medication, Israel commits an unforgivable act contrary to international law and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which guarantees the protection of citizens around the world", the statement added .
noLabel	In West Africa infant circumcision may have had tribal significance as a rite of passage or otherwise in the past; today in some non-Muslim Nigerian societies it is medicalised and is simply a cultural norm .	In early 2007 it was announced that rural aidpost orderlies in the East Sepik Province of Papua New Guinea are to undergo training in the circumcision of men and boys of all ages with a view to introducing the procedure as a means of prophylaxis against HIV/AIDS, which is becoming a significant problem in the country . 
noLabel	Immigration control at airports gradually changed from the late 1990s onward as a new emphasis was given to controlling passengers in visa issuing posts abroad.	During the 2000s new technologies opened up opportunities to create a new "flexible" border control that better focussed its resources on high risk passengers. 
noLabel	In the United States in 1999 the National Gambling Impact Study stated "the high-speed instant gratification of Internet games and the high level of privacy they offer may exacerbate problem and pathological gambling".	A UK government-funded review of previous research  noted a small scale patient survey leading to press reports claiming that 75% of people who gamble online are "problem" or "pathological" gamblers, compared to just 20% of people who visit legitimate land-based casinos . 
noLabel	Prior to the 15th century, some use of glans condoms (devices covering only the head of the penis) is recorded in Asia.	Glans condoms seem to have been used for birth control, and to have been known only by members of the upper classes.
noLabel	Instructors in post-secondary institutions might be called teachers, instructors, or professors, depending on the type of institution; and they primarily teach only their specific discipline.	Studies from the United States suggest that the quality of teachers is the single most important factor affecting student performance, and that countries which score highly on international tests have multiple policies in place to ensure that the teachers they employ are as effective as possible .
noLabel	Other researchers argue that the struggle for symbols of social distinction promoted by consumer culture creates narcissistic, hostile relations between individuals, which can be criminogenic in locations where consumer products are difficult to acquire, or where individuals simply see no limit to their acquisition .	Critics of consumerism often point out that consumerist societies are more prone to damage the environment, contribute to global warming and use up resources at a higher rate than other societies .
noLabel	In 2003, USC was not included in the BCS Championship Game, but beat Michigan in the Rose Bowl and ended up #1 in the Associated Press final poll.	The following season, in 2004, undefeated Auburn University, Boise State University and University of Utah teams were left out of the National Championship Game (the FedEx Orange Bowl), although those teams were undefeated as well.
noLabel	As of early 2007 there are approximately 35 all-seater club grounds in England with a capacity of 25,000 or more, and three in Scotland.	The largest is Manchester United's Old Trafford, which has a capacity of over 76,000 and the most recently built football stadia in the Premier League include the Emirates Stadium and the City of Manchester Stadium.
noLabel	Condoms were not promoted for disease prevention because the medical community and moral watchdogs considered STDs to be punishment for sexual misbehavior.	The stigma against victims of these diseases was so great that many hospitals refused to treat people who had syphilis . 
noLabel	This philosophy is usually accompanied by legislation ensuring various degrees of freedom of scientific research (known as scientific freedom), publishing, press and printing the depth to which these laws are entrenched in a country's legal system can go as far down as its constitution.	The concept of freedom of speech is often covered by the same laws as freedom of the press, thereby giving equal treatment to spoken and published expression. 
noLabel	The United States, European Union, and Canada have imposed a number of sanctions on the junta, including a freeze on bank accounts and restrictions on imports of gems and timber .	There is no sign that India and ASEAN nations are willing to participate in personal sanctions, though the ASEAN asked that it be made by the United Nations. 
noLabel	Civic nationalism (also known as liberal nationalism) defines the nation as an association of people who identify themselves as belonging to the nation, who have equal and shared political rights, and allegiance to similar political procedures .	According to the principles of civic nationalism, the nation is not based on common ethnic ancestry, but is a political entity whose core identity is not ethnicity.
noLabel	The term “open source” was originally intended to be trademarkable; however, the term was deemed too descriptive, so no trademark exists .	The OSI would prefer that people treat Open Source as if it were a trademark, and use it only to describe software licensed under an OSI approved license . 
noLabel	The arrival of the Atari ST and Commodore Amiga in 1985 was the beginning of a new era of 16-bit machines.	For many users they were too expensive until later on in the decade, at which point advances in the IBM PC’s open platform had caused the IBM PC compatibles to become comparably powerful at a lower cost than their competitors.
noLabel	However, the Roman Empire also created state-owned enterprises—for example, much of the grain was eventually produced on estates owned by the Emperor.	Some scholars suggest that the cost of bureaucracy was one of the reasons for the fall of the Roman Empire . 
noLabel	Anabolic steroid users tend to be disillusioned by the portrayal of anabolic steroids as deadly in the media and in politics .	According to one study, anabolic steroid users also distrust their physicians, and in the sample, 56% had not disclosed their anabolic steroid use to their physicians .
noLabel	Under a playoff system, front-running teams could be in a position of safety at the end of the regular season and could pull or greatly reduce their use of top players in order to protect them from injuries or give them recovery time (this happens frequently in the NFL) .	This is very unlikely to happen in the BCS system where a team in the running for a #1 or #2 ranking at the end of the year would be nearly certain to be punished in the polls enough for a loss that the team would be eliminated from contention. 
noLabel	Additionally, Transparency International has identified corruption in the education sector as a major stumbling block to achieving Universal Primary Education in Africa .	Furthermore, demand in the developing world for improved educational access is not as high as one would expect as governments avoid the recurrent costs involved and there is economic pressure on those parents who prefer their children making money in the short term over any long-term benefits of education.
noLabel	The leading cause of preventable death in United States is Tobacco use, causing a terrible toll in health, lives and dollars on families, businesses and government.	Tobacco use kills more than 400,000 people annually — more than AIDS, alcohol, car accidents, illegal drugs, murders and suicides combined.
noLabel	The more affluent and educated women would have fewer offspring, and therefore were under more acute pressure to produce a son as early as possible.	As ultrasound imaging and other techniques increasingly allow early prediction of the child's sex, the more affluent families opt for an abortion, or if a girl is born, decrease her chance of survival by, for example, not providing sufficient medical care . 
noLabel	The Soviet Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov had informed Tokyo of the Soviet Union's unilateral abrogation of the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact on 5 April.	At two minutes past midnight on 9 August, Tokyo time, Soviet infantry, armor, and air forces had launched the Manchurian Strategic Offensive Operation.
noLabel	ECPM: Effective CPM or ECPM calculated through other conversion events such as Cost per Clicks, Cost per Downloads, Cost per Leads etc.	for example when an advertiser getting $2 per download and for 100,000 impressions you received 10 downloads worth $20, in this case your effective CPM or ECPM will be 2*20*1000/100,000= $0.4  . 
noLabel	Most Americans are troubled by performance-enhancing drugs, which they believe are widely used by the nation's athletes, according to the latest New York Times poll.	According to the poll, the public believes that professional athletes in major American sports leagues use steroids to a greater degree than American Olympic athletes do.
noLabel	Programs were burned onto ROM chips that were mounted inside plastic cartridge casings that could be plugged into slots on the console.	When the cartridges were plugged in, the general-purpose microprocessors in the consoles read the cartridge memory and executed whatever program was stored there.
noLabel	Its origins can be traced back to the 16th-century School of Salamanca or even further; however, Friedman's contribution is largely responsible for its modern popularization.	He co-authored, with Anna Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States (1963), which was an examination of the role of the money supply and economic activity in U.S. history.
noLabel	The URAA has been relatively unsuccessful in disciplining export subsidies, with the proportion of subsidised exports in total exports increasing in many products of export interest for developing countries: for example for wheat, from 7% in 1995 to 25% in 1998.	The cost to developing country production and exports is considerable, and only partially offset by the lower food prices available to NFIDC consumers.
noLabel	In the 2006 elections, the Liberal Party attempted the same strategy, with Prime Minister Paul Martin asking New Democrats and Greens to vote for the Liberal Party in order to prevent a Conservative win.	The New Democratic Party leader Jack Layton would respond by asking voters to "lend" their votes to his party, suggesting that the Liberal Party would be bound to lose the election regardless of strategic voting. 
noLabel	Specific European-American ethnicities significantly diminished as a political issue in the 1930s, being replaced by a bi-racialism of Black/White, as described and predicted by Lothrop Stoddard, due to numerous causes.	The National Origins Formula significantly reduced inflows of non-Nordic ethnicities; the Great Migration (of African-Americans out of the South) displaced anti-White immigrant racism with anti-Black racism; and the Great Depression brought economic concerns to the fore. 
noLabel	These conflicts are among the most difficult to resolve, particularly where both sides believe that God is on their side and has endorsed the moral righteousness of their claims .	One of the most infamous quotes associated with religious fanaticism was made in 1209 during the siege of Béziers, a Crusader asked the Papal Legate Arnaud Amalric how to tell Catholics from Cathars when the city was taken, to which Amalric replied:
noLabel	Some journalists have likewise criticised a perceived lack of editorial discretion when releasing thousands of documents at once and without sufficient analysis .	In response to some of the negative reaction, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has expressed her concern over the "cyber war" against WikiLeaks, and in a joint statement with the Organization of American States the UN Special Rapporteur has called on states and other actors to keep international legal principles in mind .
noLabel	Personal information can be sent to such organisations from the EEA without the sender being in breach of Article 25 or its EU national equivalents.	The Safe Harbor was approved as providing adequate protection for personal data, for the purposes of Article 25(6), by the European Commission on 26 July 2000 . 
noLabel	A movement of new unions began to emerge with a more independent model, while the old institutionalised unions had become very corrupt, violent and gangster led.	From the 1990s, the new model of independent unions prevailed, and a number of them were represented by the National Union of Workers .
noLabel	In contrast are four states which make no mention whatever of an individual right or of defense of one's self as a valid basis for the right to arms.	Arkansas, Massachusetts, and Tennessee all state that the right is "for the common defense", while Virginia's constitution explicitly indicates that the right is derived from the need for a militia to defend the state . 
noLabel	Iran states it has a legal right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes under the NPT, and further says that it "has constantly complied with its obligations under the NPT and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency" .	Iran also states that its enrichment program is part of its civilian nuclear energy program, which is allowed under Article IV of the NPT.
noLabel	In the British Empire, traditions of anti-Catholicism in Britain led to fears that Catholics were a threat to the national (British) values.	In Canada, the Orange Order (of Irish Protestants) campaigned vigorously against the Catholics throughout the 19th century, often with violent confrontations.
noLabel	Although British scientists knew well the areas of the Manhattan Project in which they had worked, they only had the sketchiest details of those parts which they were not directly involved in, and the McMahon Act prevented American aid.	By 1949, international control of atomic weapons seemed almost impossible to achieve, and Truman proposed to the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy in July a "full partnership" with Britain in exchange for uranium.
noLabel	The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) acceded to the NPT in 1985 as a condition for the supply of a nuclear power station by the USSR.	However, it delayed concluding its NPT Safeguards Agreement with the IAEA, a process which should take only 18 months, until April 1992. 
noLabel	A November 2006 analysis found that "wind power may be able to cover more than 50% of the Danish electricity consumption in 2025" under conditions of high oil prices and higher costs for CO2 allowances .	Denmark's two grids (covering West Denmark and East Denmark separately) each incorporate high-capacity interconnectors to neighbouring grids where some of the variations from wind are absorbed .
noLabel	Going into the final poll, undefeated Boise State and four one-loss teams (Louisville, Michigan, Wisconsin and Florida) were up for a spot against undefeated top-ranked Ohio State in the BCS National Championship game in Glendale, Arizona.	Louisville (11-1, champions of the Big East), and Boise State were given less consideration because of a lack of schedule strength, while Wisconsin (11-1, Big 10) was two steps removed from Ohio State (they lost to Michigan, who lost to Ohio State, and Wisconsin and Ohio State did not play). 
noLabel	Community and monetary economist Thomas H. Greco, Jr. has argued that the mainstream global economy with its debt-based currency has built-in structural incentives that create poverty through keeping money scarce.	Greco points to the success of modern barter clubs and historical local currencies such as the Wörgl Experiment at revitalizing stagnant local economies, and calls for the creation of community currency as a means to reduce or eliminate poverty . 
noLabel	Shurat HaDin, an NGO based in Israel, delayed or blocked several of the vessels by legal methods, including warning insurance companies that insuring the flotilla boats might leave the companies open to prosecution for aiding a terrorist organization .	In addition, Shurat HaDin sent a letter warning Inmarsat, a satellite navigation company, that it could be open to legal charges for providing communications and navigation services to ships that are part of the flotilla . 
noLabel	However, yields can overlap, and many weapons such as the B61 nuclear bomb are used in both tactical and strategic roles.	Indeed, the strategic Hiroshima and Nagasaki attacks utilized weapons of between 10 and 20 kilotons, though this was because the "Little Boy" and "Fat Man" bombs were the most destructive (and indeed only) nuclear weapons available at the time. 
noLabel	Although the use of the word "tax" is not strictly correct, these descriptions are intended to suggest that lotteries are government-sanctioned operations which will attract only those people who fail to understand that buying a lottery ticket is a poor economic decision.	Indeed, after taking into account the present value of a given lottery prize as a single lump sum cash payment, the impact of any taxes that might apply, and the likelihood of having to share the prize with other winners, it is not uncommon to find that a ticket for a major lottery is worth less than one third of its purchase price.
noLabel	The two-round system (also known as the second ballot, runoff voting or ballotage) is a voting system used to elect a single winner where the voter casts a single vote for their chosen candidate.	However, if no candidate receives the required number of votes (usually the absolute majority or 40-45% with a winning margin of 5-15%), then those candidates having less than a certain proportion of the votes, or all but the two candidates receiving the most votes, are eliminated, and a second round of voting occurs. 
noLabel	"There exists an obligation to pursue in good faith and bring to a conclusion negotiations leading to nuclear disarmament in all its aspects under strict and effective international control.	"The ICJ opinion notes that this obligation involves all NPT parties (not just the nuclear weapon states) and does not suggest a specific time frame for nuclear disarmament . 
noLabel	In the Congress, Representative Darrell Issa (R–CA–49), chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and Senator Chuck Grassley (R–IA), ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, have been investigating "gunwalking" operations .	On January 27, 2011, Grassley wrote a letter to ATF Acting Director Kenneth E. Melson requesting information about the ATF–sanctioned sale of hundreds of firearms to straw purchasers.
noLabel	Supporters of the system say that college athletes can always make use of the education they earn as students if their athletic career doesn't pan out, and that allowing universities to pay college athletes would rapidly lead to deterioration of the already-marginal academic focus of college athletics programs.	They also point out that athletic scholarships allow many young men and women who would otherwise be unable to afford to go to college, or would not be accepted, to get a quality education.
noLabel	Mays told the drafting group that Bryan's decision invited a pupil assignment program and suggested it might pass constitutional muster .	Almond agreed, and on August 1 told the press that Judge Bryan's decision left open the possibility of implementing a pupil assignment plan that would be neutral on its face but which could keep schools segregated . 
noLabel	On 5 August 2011, the first sanctioned bout in the United States since 1889 took place at Fort McDowell Casino in Arizona between Rich Stewart of New Castle, Delaware and Bobby Gunn, with Gunn emerging as the victor .	The last sanctioned fight in 1889 was between John L. Sullivan and Jake Kilrain, with Sullivan emerging as the victor .
noLabel	Operating systems built on the Linux kernel are available for a wider range of processor architectures than Microsoft Windows, including PowerPC and SPARC.	None of these can match the sheer popularity of the x86 architecture, nevertheless they do have significant numbers of users; Windows remains unavailable for these alternative architectures, although there have been such ports of it in the past. 
noLabel	Many of the former nuclear facilities (see next section) produced significant environmental damages during their years of activity, and since the 1990s have been Superfund sites of cleanup and environmental remediation.	The Radiation Exposure Compensation Act of 1990 allows for U.S. citizens exposed to radiation or other health risks through the U.S. nuclear program to file for compensation and damages.
noLabel	The influx of immigrant loggers introduces new risks for the local communities, such as rural food shortages, and increase in crime rate, and an increase in the rate of sexually transmitted diseases, such as HIV .	Although the increased economic activity introduced by logging might be seen as a benefit, the windfall is mostly seen by the traders and not the rural Malagasy poor, who do the strenuous physical labor for minimal pay.
noLabel	The assertion that the Supreme Court was making a legislative decision is often repeated by opponents of the Court's decision .	The "viability" criterion, which Blackmun acknowledged was arbitrary, is still in effect, although the point of viability has changed as medical science has found ways to help premature babies survive .
noLabel	Perhaps a drop could divide itself into two smaller drops in a more gradual manner, by first becoming elongated, then constricted, and finally being torn rather than broken in two?	We knew that there were strong forces that would resist such a process, just as the surface tension of an ordinary liquid drop tends to resist its division into two smaller ones.
noLabel	Gloves reduce the amount of cuts caused, but British Medical Association research has stated that gloves do not reduce brain injuries and may even increase them, because the main cause of injury is acceleration and deceleration of the head, and fighters wearing gloves are able to punch harder to the head.	Gloves may reduce the amount of eye injuries, especially if they are thumbless, but retinal tears and detached retinas still occur to boxers wearing modern gloves .
noLabel	In February 1946, the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations helped draft the constitution of the new body .	The use of the word "world", rather than "international", emphasised the truly global nature of what the organization was seeking to achieve .
noLabel	M. Balinski and R. Laraki, the inventors of the majority judgment system, performed such an investigation using a set of simulated elections based on the results from a poll of the 2007 French presidential election which they had carried out using rated ballots.	Comparing range voting, Borda count, plurality voting, approval voting with two different absolute approval thresholds, Condorcet voting, and majority judgment, they found that range voting had the highest (worst) strategic vulnerability, while their own system majority judgment had the lowest (best) . 
noLabel	The defendants failed to meet the burden of proof required by the PPPA, that the plaintiffs had no reasonable prospect of success.	While it was not the subject of the case, some felt that the plaintiffs did not bring their action for an improper purpose, and the suit did not inhibit the defendants in their public criticism of the particular project, and that the Act was therefore ineffective in this case. 
noLabel	The mechanics of the process are the same regardless of how many candidates the voter ranks, and how many are left unranked.	In some implementations, the voter ranks as many or as few choices as they wish, while in other implementations the voter is required to rank either all candidates, or a prescribed number of them.
noLabel	For example it would apply to conflicts between the Government and rebel forces, or between two rebel forces, or to other conflicts that have all the characteristics of war but that are carried out within the confines of a single country.	A handful of individuals attacking a police station would not be considered an armed conflict subject to this article, but only subject to the laws of the country in question . 
noLabel	 The independence of irrelevant alternatives criterion states that "the election outcome remains the same even if a candidate who cannot win decides to run."	IRV does not meet this criterion; in the general case, instant-runoff voting can be susceptible to strategic nomination: whether or not a candidate decides to run at all can affect the result even if the new candidate cannot themselves win .
noLabel	Some candidates state a preference for an established major party, such as the Democratic Party or the Republican Party, while others use the ballot to send a message, such as Prefers No New Taxes Party or Prefers Salmon Yoga Party.	Since this is a "preference" and not a declaration of party membership, candidates can assert party affiliation without approval of the party itself, and even use alternate terms for a given party, such as Dino Rossi's 2008 stated preference for the "GOP Party".
noLabel	McCain believes that America must convince our allies in the region and friendly Arab nations to abandon their support for Sudan and force them to accept more peacekeepers.	On a more immediate time-frame McCain has called for the use of NATO air-power to establish a no-fly zone and the use of intelligence assets to gather evidence of genocide and build cases against its perpetrators .
noLabel	A distinctive gang culture underpins many, but not all, organised groups; this may develop through recruiting strategies, social learning processes in the corrective system experienced by youth, family or peer involvement in crime, and the coercive actions of criminal authority figures.	The term “street gang” is commonly used interchangeably with “youth gang,” referring to neighborhood or street-based youth groups that meet “gang” criteria.
noLabel	Several studies have shown that several minority groups, including Black men and women, Hispanic men and women, and white women, suffer from decreased wage earning for the same job with the same performance levels and responsibilities as white males.	Numbers vary wildly from study to study, but most indicate a gap from 5 to 15% lower earnings on average, between a white male worker and a black or Hispanic man or a woman of any race with equivalent educational background and qualifications. 
noLabel	The siting of turbines is sometimes an issue, but surveys have shown high levels of community acceptance for wind power in Scotland.	There is further potential for expansion, especially offshore given the high average wind speeds, and a number of large offshore wind farms are planned. 
noLabel	In its own survey it found that while conservatives were rare, there was a large centrist group between those self-identifying as liberals or conservatives.	More moderate views were more common in younger professors, although also in this age group liberals were several times more common than conservatives.
noLabel	An Italian magazine, Panorama, claimed that in order to win the game players must bury a girl alive which the game's European publisher disputed .	On the UK release day, the publisher announced that Rule of Rose would not be published in the UK, despite the game being approved for release by the Pan European Game Information (PEGI) and Video Standards Council regulatory bodies .
noLabel	Because thermal radiation travels more or less in a straight line from the fireball (unless scattered) any opaque object will produce a protective shadow.	If fog or haze scatters the light, it will heat things from all directions and shielding will be less effective, but fog or haze would also diminish the range of these effects.
noLabel	Catholics maintain that the sacrifice of the Mass is the same sacrifice that Christ offered "once for all", not a new or separate one, and that when Catholics participate in the celebration of the Mass, they are actually present at it.	The Council of Trent says the Mass is the means "whereby that bloody sacrifice once to be accomplished on the Cross might be represented, the memory thereof remain even to the end of the world, and its salutary effects applied to the remission of those sins which we daily commit" (Session 22, chapter 1).
noLabel	However, the elimination of their economic monopolies over certain occupations actually led to a decline in their general living standards, while social discrimination simply continued.	For example, the ban on consumption of meat from livestock was lifted in 1871 in order to "westernise" the country, and many former eta moved on to work in abattoirs and as butchers. 
noLabel	A drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen – for example urine, hair, blood, sweat, or oral fluid / saliva – to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites.	Major uses of drug testing are to detect the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport or for drugs prohibited by laws, such as cannabis, cocaine and heroin.
noLabel	Nixon Solicitor General Erwin N. Griswold later called the Papers an example of "massive overclassification" with "no trace of a threat to the national security".	The Papers' publication had little or no effect on the ongoing war because they dealt with documents written years before publication . 
noLabel	When cigar smokers don’t inhale or smoke few cigars per day, the risks of disease are greatly reduced compared to heavy cigar smokers .	The increased risk for those smoking 1–2 cigars per day is too small to be statistically significant, and the health risks of the 3/4 of cigar smokers who smoke less than daily are not established, and are hard to measure.
noLabel	The remaining U.S. nuclear plants produce approximately 90% of their full-time full-load potential, but even they must shut down (on average) for 39 days every 17 months for scheduled refueling and maintenance .	To cope with such intermittence by nuclear (and centralized fossil-fuelled) power plants, utilities install a “reserve margin” of roughly 15% extra capacity spinning ready for instant use . 
noLabel	This disabled sexual content caused Leland Yee and other critics of violent games to call for an immediate re-labeling of the game by its producer, Rockstar Games, and to use it as an example for the need of the type of legislation they promoted.	The problem here is that Rockstar has claimed in no uncertain terms that this added portion of the game is not something they devised at all but the result of external modifications by hackers, and indeed, a Dutch hacker has claimed responsibility for it. 
noLabel	Israeli Government report further adds that on numerous occasions a last-minute decision not to attack legitimate military targets or to divert missiles moments before the impact was upheld to avoid the possibility of civilian harm, even though such an attack might not be excessive in relation to the anticipated military advantage.	The report claims that the IDF also refrained from attacking al-Shifa Hospital in Gaza City, despite alleged Hamas’ use of an entire ground floor wing as its headquarters, out of concern for the inevitable harm to civilians present in the hospital .
noLabel	The original target for the bomb was the city of Kokura, but obscuring clouds necessitated changing course to the alternative target, Nagasaki.	"Fat Man" was dropped from the B-29 bomber Bockscar, piloted by Major Charles Sweeney of the 393d Bombardment Squadron, Heavy, and exploded at 11:02 AM (JST), at an altitude of about , with a yield of about .
noLabel	Finally, there are situations in which the expiration of a monarch’s reign is set based either on the calendar or on the achievement of certain goals (repulse of invasion, for instance.)	The effect of historical and geographic difference along each of these three axes is to create widely divergent structures and traditions defining “monarchy.” .
noLabel	At the end of 2009, worldwide wind farm capacity was 157,900 MW, representing an increase of 31 percent during the year, and wind power supplied some 1.3% of global electricity consumption .	Wind power accounts for approximately 19% of electricity use in Denmark, 9% in Spain and Portugal, and 6% in Germany and the Republic of Ireland .
noLabel	Every case in which a court discovers a violation of the Charter would therefore require a section 1 analysis to determine if the law can still be upheld.	Infringements are upheld if the purpose for the government action is to achieve what would be recognized as an urgent or important objective in a free society, and if the infringement can be "demonstrably justified."
noLabel	It can also be argued that the Palestinian National Authority is not a state and no government recognizes Hamas control in Gaza as such this conflict is not bound by the set of norms, rules, and treaties with which many states conflict occur .	But even if it were argued that a state conflict is said to exist many say it is in accordance with the Fourth Geneva Convention (Part 3, Article 1, Section 28) which reads: “The presence of a protected person may not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military operations,” and so they argue that international law explicitly gives Israel the right to conduct military operations against military targets under these circumstances . 
noLabel	Lawyers representing the Turkish victims and IHH wrote to Luis Moreno Ocampo, prosecutor at the International Criminal Court (ICC) asking to prosecute the Israelis involved.	Although Israel is not a member of the ICC, the lawyer said the Mavi Marmara was sailing under flag of the Comoros and many Turks were on board, and both these countries were signatories .
noLabel	Experts say that sexting poses a serious problem, partly because teens do not understand that the images are permanent and can be spread quickly.	“It does not click that what they’re doing is destructive, let alone illegal.” “Once they are out there, it spreads like a virus,” police say .
noLabel	It is considered the first multiplayer 3D shooter on a mainstream system and the first major network multiplayer action game, with support for as many as 16 players.	It was followed up by ports to various platforms in 1991 under the title Faceball 2000, including the Game Boy and Super NES, making it possibly the first handheld and multiplatform first-person shooter and an early console example of the genre . 
noLabel	The final report gathered a vast amount of information from a wide range of sources to ensure a balanced perspective on the issues of aid effectiveness.	The All Party Parliamentary Group for Debt, Aid and Trade's inquiry into Aid Effectiveness can be found online and the submissions of other contributors are available upon request. 
noLabel	Mortal Kombat was one of many violent video games that came into prominence between 1992 and 1993, generating controversy among parents and public officials .	Hearings on video game violence and the corruption of society, headed by Senator Joseph Lieberman and Herb Kohl were held in late 1992 to 1993.
noLabel	The evidential version of the problem of evil (also referred to as the probabilistic or inductive version), seeks to show that the existence of evil, although logically consistent with the existence of God, counts against or lowers the probability of the truth of theism.	As an example, a critic of Plantinga's idea of "a mighty nonhuman spirit" causing natural evils may concede that the existence of such a being is not logically impossible but argue that due to lacking scientific evidence for its existence this is very unlikely and thus it is an unconvincing explanation for the presence of natural evils. 
noLabel	Foote and Goetz also criticize Levitt and Donahue's use of arrest totals rather than arrests per capita, which takes population size into account.	Using Census Bureau population estimates, Foote and Goetz repeated the analysis using arrest rates in place of simple arrest totals, and found that the effect of abortion disappeared entirely . 
noLabel	The University of Phoenix was also named one of the nation's top 20 institutions of higher education favorable to military personnel, according to the December 2008 issue of Military Advanced Education.	Nearly 29,000 active-duty military, their spouses, and veterans were enrolled in University of Phoenix degree programs at that time with more than 7,200 military members or veterans graduated from the university during that year . 
noLabel	For RTS to occur, there must be a seismic structure near the dam or its reservoir and the seismic structure must be close to failure.	Additionally, water must be able to infiltrate the deep rock stratum as the weight of a deep reservoir will have little impact when compared the deadweight of rock on a crustal stress field which may be located at a depth of or more .
noLabel	Critics of ALG's property rights efforts have focused on two pragmatic areas: first, that the initiatives will make government incapable of regulating land use .	and second, that the initiativesn will cost tax payers billions of dollars as it requires compensating businesses for complying with existing laws .
noLabel	The URM program is coordinated by the U.S. Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), a branch of the United States Administration for Children and Families.	The mission of the ORR is to provide people in need with critical resources to assist them in becoming integrated members of American society . 
noLabel	Assistant Immigration Officers' were common in the early days of the service but were dispensed with when the age bar on becoming an Immigration Officer was abolished, (date uncertain but probably before WW2).	The grade of Assistant Immigration Officer was revived in 1991 but the role was initially badly defined and the scope of their work subject to ongoing dispute with the unions representing the Immigration Service grades, the Public and Commercial Services Union (PCS), and Immigration Service Union (ISU).
noLabel	" On her website, Norris stated that the idea was not to disrespect Islam, but to support everybody's freedom of expression .	In an interview with Dave Ross of KIRO, Norris responded to a question "Are you sure you want to do this?
noLabel	On September 6, Stanley's backers introduced a new bill in the Assembly which would give the governor the power to make pupil assignments .	The new bill expanded on the limited criteria previously proposed by the governor by declaring that pupil assignment would be made in order to ensure "efficient" (e.g., integrated) operation of the schools and to reduce a clear and present danger to the public safety of citizens in those districts which integrated .
noLabel	In the Republic of Ireland, private schools () are unusual due to the fact that a certain number of teacher's salaries are paid by the State.	If the school wishes to employ extra teachers they are paid for with school fees, which tend to be relatively low in Ireland compared to the rest of the world.
noLabel	Based on United Nations and Chinese government statistics, it was estimated in 1987 that by the year 2000 the population 60 years and older (the retirement age is 60 in urban areas) would number 127 million, or 10.1 percent of the total population; the projection for 2025 was 234 million elderly, or 16.4 percent.	According to projections based on the 1982 census, if the one-child policy were maintained to the year 2000, 25 percent of China's population would be age 65 or older by the year 2040.
noLabel	The law student organization Building a Better Legal Profession has developed a method to encourage politically liberal students to avoid law firms whose racial makeup is markedly different than that of the population as a whole.	In an October 2007 press conference reported in The Wall Street Journal, and the New York Times  the group released data publicizing the numbers of African-Americans, Hispanics, and Asian-Americans at America's top law firms.
noLabel	As a result the declaration's ratification by the House of Commons in 1836, officials in the Colonial Office determined in 1839 that a treaty of cessation would need to be signed with Māori for the British Crown to acquire sovereignty over New Zealand.	 The Treaty of Waitangi was signed in 1840 by representatives of the British Crown and over 500 Māori chiefs, and is considered the founding document of the nation.
noLabel	The cost is normally stated in units of local currency per unit of electricity, for example cents-per-kilowatt-hour for small numbers, or dollars-per-megawatt-hour for larger quantities.	The calculation does not include wider system costs associated with each type of plant, such as long distance connections to grids, balancing and reserve costs, and does not include externalities such as health damage by coal plants, decommissioning costs of nuclear plant.
noLabel	While mainline Protestant denominations are more inclined towards strict separation of church and state, much evangelical opinion has now largely deserted that position.	As a consequence, strict separationism is opposed today by members of many Protestant faiths, even perhaps eclipsing the opposition of Roman Catholics. 
noLabel	Those who report a false claim against the federal government, and suffer adverse employment actions as a result, may have up to six years (depending on state law) to file a civil suit for remedies under the US False Claims Act (FCA) .	Under a qui tam provision, the "original source" for the report may be entitled to a percentage of what the government recovers from the offenders.
noLabel	On February 27, 2004 in Leicester, UK, 17-year-old Warren Leblanc lured 14-year-old Stefan Pakeerah into a park and murdered him by stabbing him repeatedly with a claw hammer and knife.	Leblanc was reportedly obsessed with Manhunt, although investigation quickly revealed that the killer did not even own a copy of the game.
noLabel	Analysts from Reporters Without Borders rank the United States 47th in the world in terms in their Press Freedom Index, falling from 20th just two years earlier partly because of reaction to the Occupy movement.	Certain forms of speech, such as obscenity and defamation, are restricted in major media outlets by the government or by the industry on its own.
noLabel	On 18 December 2003, Iran voluntarily signed, but did not ratify or bring into force, an Additional Protocol that allows IAEA inspectors access to individuals, documentation relating to procurement, dual-use equipment, certain military-owned workshops, and research and development locations .	Iran agreed voluntarily to implement the Additional Protocol provisionally, however when the IAEA reported Iran's non-compliance to the United Nations Security Council on 4 February 2006 Iran withdrew from its voluntary adherence to the Additional Protocol . 
noLabel	In January, 2010, the Israeli group Gisha took Israeli authorities to court, forcing them to reveal which goods were permitted and which goods weren't.	The Israeli government replied that canned fruit, fruit juices and chocolate are blocked, while at the same time canned meat, canned tuna, mineral water, sesame paste, tea and coffee are allowed into the Gaza Strip . 
noLabel	Some countries in Africa, the Pacific, and Latin America have begun switching from supporting to abstaining, or from abstaining to opposing .	The most recent resolution in 2010, condemning the Swiss ban on minarets as well as defamation of religions in general, passed with only 20 supporting, 17 opposing, and 8 abstaining .
noLabel	Since 1 July 2007, undergraduate education in Sweden consists of all higher education degrees that are normally obtained in the first 5 years (Master, Bachelor, University Diploma and all professional degrees).	In the US, undergraduate education is considered higher education degrees that are normally obtained in the first 4 years (Bachelor and Associate degrees). 
noLabel	higher risks buy more insurance), and the insurer is unable to allow for this correlation in the price of insurance .	This may be because of private information known only to the individual (information asymmetry), or because of regulations or social norms which prevent the insurer from using certain categories of known information to set prices (e.g.
noLabel	Santorum had also failed to submit full or any delegate slates in nine of Ohio's congressional districts making him unable to win all delegates in those districts.	The state became the big battleground of Super Tuesday and its delegates were split between Romney and Santorum, who won three congressional districts where he didnt have a full slate.
noLabel	The Australian Technology Network universities largely grew from the former Institutes of Technology and include RMIT University, Queensland University of Technology, Curtin University, the University of Technology Sydney and the University of South Australia.	They gained university status in the late 1980s to the early 1990s as a result of the reforms of the then Minister for Employment, Education and Training, John Dawkins.
noLabel	The first report of a smoking Englishman is of a sailor in Bristol in 1556, seen "emitting smoke from his nostrils" .	Like tea, coffee and opium, tobacco was just one of many intoxicants that was originally used as a form of medicine .
noLabel	In the USA and some other countries, the Vietnam War saw new levels of opposition to conscription and the Selective Service System.	Many people opposed to and facing conscription chose to either apply for classification and assignment to civilian alternative service or noncombatant service within the military as conscientious objectors, or to evade the draft by fleeing to a neutral country.
noLabel	The method most widely used is gathering information on time use, which has "been implemented by at least 20 developing countries and more are underway".	Information is collected on how much time men and women spend on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis on certain activities that fall under the categories of unpaid work. 
noLabel	accused Brown of attempting to rape her and throwing her cell phone into a nearby river; Brown denied the rape charges.	The victim later recanted her testimony, though prosecutors presented evidence that she had received a cash payment just before doing so. 
noLabel	Friedman rejected the use of fiscal policy as a tool of demand management; and he held that the government's role in the guidance of the economy should be restricted severely.	Friedman wrote extensively on the Great Depression, which he termed the Great Contraction, arguing that it had been caused by an ordinary financial shock whose duration and seriousness were greatly increased by the subsequent contraction of the money supply caused by the misguided policies of the directors of the Federal Reserve.
noLabel	Since its inception, the Debian project has been closely linked with the FSF, and in fact was sponsored by the FSF for a year in 1994–1995.	In 1997, former Debian project leader Bruce Perens also helped found Software in the Public Interest, a non-profit funding and support organization for various free-software projects .
noLabel	A breakdown of the non-BCS revenue sharing conducted in 2010  shows the total amounts that the five non-BCS conferences received from all bowls.	The coalition of C-USA, MAC, MWC, Sun Belt, and WAC conferences divides half of the BCS revenue equally amongst the five conferences, and the other half into 15 equal shares which are divided by performance.
noLabel	Sometimes there are disputes over the union contract; this particularly occurs in cases of workers fired without just cause in a union workplace.	These then go to arbitration, which is similar to an informal court hearing; a neutral arbitrator then rules whether the termination or other contract breach is extant, and if it is, orders that it be corrected. 
noLabel	In a 2004 interview, Ehrlich reviewed the predictions in his book, and found that while the specific dates within his predictions may have been wrong, his predictions about climate change and disease were valid.	Ehrlich continued to advocate for population control and co-authored the book The Population Explosion, released in 1990 with his wife Anne Ehrlich. 
noLabel	In Malaysia, it is treason to commit offences against the Yang di-Pertuan Agong’s person, waging, attempting to wage war or abetting the waging of war against the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, a Ruler or Yang di-Pertua Negeri.	All these offences are punishable by hanging, which derives from the English treason acts (a former British colony, Malaysia's legal system is based on English common law).
noLabel	During this time, the American educational professionals Raymond and Dorothy Moore began to research the academic validity of the rapidly growing Early Childhood Education movement.	This research included independent studies by other researchers and a review of over 8,000 studies bearing on Early Childhood Education and the physical and mental development of children. 
noLabel	Since life began on Earth, five major mass extinctions and several minor events have led to large and sudden drops in biodiversity.	The Phanerozoic eon (the last 540&nbsp;million years) marked a rapid growth in biodiversity via the Cambrian explosion—a period during which nearly every phylum of multicellular organisms first appeared.
noLabel	The vote is now expected to pave the way for the EU, ECB and IMF to jointly release the funds, which are supposed to cover all the Greek financial needs in 2012-2014.	According to the bailout plan, Greece should then be stable enough for a full return in 2015, to obtain all its future needs of economic funding from the private capital markets . 
noLabel	"My personal view is that an out of competition testing programme should be very extensive, of course the more extensive the better, and not that many nations do have that in place, I have to admit that," he said.	"I would argue that very few would lead up to my ideal in that sense but at least we have reached a stage where all are conducting out of competition testing in some way or another, and that is being monitored by Wada.
noLabel	Obtaining a fair ranking system is a difficult mathematical problem and numerous algorithms have been proposed for ranking college football teams in particular.	One example is the "random-walker rankings" studied by applied mathematicians Thomas Callaghan, Peter Mucha, and Mason Porter that employs the science of complex networks.
noLabel	He opposed accelerating the cuts in 2003, saying that he was not in favor of cutting taxes during a time of war .	In 2004 McCain appeared on Meet The Press with Tim Russert where he was asked about his opposition to the Bush tax cuts.
noLabel	The concept of intangible cultural heritage (ICH) emerged in the 1990s, as a counterpart to the World Heritage that focuses mainly on tangible aspects of culture.	In 2001, UNESCO made a survey among States and NGOs to try to agree on a definition, and the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage was drafted in 2003 for their protection.
noLabel	Twice a year, the Office of Management and Budget delivers an economic assessment of the unemployment insurance program as it relates to budgetary issues .	As it relates to the FY 2012 budget, the OMB reports that: the insured unemployment rate (IUR) is projected to average 3.6% in both FY 2011 and in FY 2012.
noLabel	This critique associated his name, together with that of Edmund Phelps, with the insight that a government that brings about greater inflation cannot permanently reduce unemployment by doing so.	Unemployment may be temporarily lower, if the inflation is a surprise, but in the long run unemployment will be determined by the frictions and imperfections of the labor market. 
noLabel	The USHMM has estimated that 3.3 million of the 5.7 million Soviet POWs died in German custody—compared to 8,300 of 231,000 British and American prisoners .	The death rates decreased as the POWs were needed to work as slaves to help the German war effort; by 1943, half a million of them had been deployed as slave labor .
noLabel	Spurred by conservative Republican legislators and their American Legislative Exchange Council (Alec), these laws are promoted under the pretext of combating voter fraud.	Yet, voter fraud is exceedingly rare, with a 1 in 2.3m chance of occurring in a federal election, according to the NAACP.
noLabel	The "free schools", similar to charter schools in the United States or academies in the United Kingdom, are funded with public money from the local municipality, based on the number of pupils they have enrolled, in the same way Swedish public schools are.	Consequently, they are not allowed to discriminate or require admission examinations, nor are they not allowed to charge the students any additional fees.
noLabel	Overall, Steven Brams and Dudley R. Herschbach argued in a paper in Science magazine in 2001 that approval voting was the system least amenable to tactical perturbations.	Meanwhile, Balinski and Laraki used rated ballots from a poll of the 2007 French presidential election to show that, if unstrategic voters only approved candidates whom they considered "very good" or better, strategic voters would be able to sway the result frequently, but that if unstrategic voters approved all candidates they considered "good" or better, approval was the second most strategy-resistant system of the ones they studied . 
noLabel	Firstly, proportionality refers to the relationship between the defending state's scope and nature of the objectives being pursued, and the instruments available for use to pursue this.	The more the defending state demands of another state, the higher that state's costs of compliance and the greater need for the defending state’s strategy to increase the costs of noncompliance and the benefits of compliance.
noLabel	But also it is the duty and the responsibility of all countries, including ours, to set up frameworks to stop the proliferation of it."	Hours after that interview, he spoke passionately in favor of Iran's right to develop nuclear technology, claiming the nation should have the same liberties . 
noLabel	While the concept of development aid goes back to the colonial era, that origin of modern development aid roots in the context of Post-World War II and the Cold War: Launched as a large-scale aid program by the United States in 1948, the European Recovery Program, or Marshall Plan was concerned with strengthening the ties to the West European states to contain the influence of the USSR.	This political rationale is well summarized in the Truman Doctrine, in which United States president Harry Truman stated the anti-communist rationale for U.S. development aid in his inaugural address of 1949, which also announced the founding of NATO: . 
noLabel	Fine Gael, Sinn Féin, and the Workers' Party said no, while Labour and the Green Party supported a referendum to remove the constitutional requirement .	After the election, the Fine Gael–Labour coalition's programme for government promised a constitutional convention to draft a range of reforms, including "Removing blasphemy from the Constitution" .
noLabel	Despite being one of the ruling parties, the Popular Orthodox Rally voted against the plan and withdrew itself from the government.	Forty-three MPs from the other two ruling parties (socialist PASOK and conservative New Democracy) also voted against the plan and were immediately expelled from their parties.
noLabel	The Midwest and the Great Plains regions in the United States are ideal areas for community wind energy projects; they are also oftentimes prone to drought.	Fossil fuel plants use large amounts of water for cooling purposes which is detrimental to communities' water supply if there is a drought.
noLabel	As for Waltz, the general opinion is that most states are not in a position to safely guard against nuclear use, that he under-estimates the long-standing antipathy in many regions, and that weak states will be unable to prevent – or will actively provide for – the disastrous possibility of nuclear terrorism.	Waltz has dealt with all of these objections at some point in his work; though to many, he has not adequately responded (Betts (2000)). 
noLabel	As a result, books can be removed from schools or libraries, although these bans do not extend outside of that area.	Similarly, religions may issue lists of banned books – a historical example being the Roman Catholic Church's Index Librorum Prohibitorum – which do not always carry legal force.
noLabel	According to Kramer (2000c, 2003) it is impossible to willfully unlearn one's self and that even if it were possible it would not aid in the newcomer's adjustment process for the newcomer needs to integrate new information, making sense of new experiences in accord with their pre-understanding.	An example of fusion, whereby the individual presumes and relies on pre-understandings to integrate new circumstances is driving a bicycle or automobile in a foreign environment.
noLabel	Iron Dome () is a mobile system developed by Rafael Advanced Defense Systems designed to intercept short-range rockets with a range less than 70&nbsp;km.	In February 2007, the system was selected by Israeli Defense Minister Ehud Barak as the Israeli Defense Force's defense system against short range rockets.
noLabel	By the beginning of World War II, scientists of the Allied nations were concerned that Germany might have its own project to develop fission-based weapons.	Organized research first began in Britain as part of the "Tube Alloys" project, and in the United States a small amount of funding was given for research into uranium weapons, starting in 1939 with the Uranium Committee under Lyman James Briggs. 
noLabel	Its scientific team led by the American physicist Robert Oppenheimer, the project brought together the top scientific minds of the day, including many exiles from Europe, with the production power of American industry for the goal of producing fission-based explosive devices before Germany.	Britain and the U.S. agreed to pool their resources and information for the project, but the other Allied power&mdash;the Soviet Union&mdash;was not informed. 
noLabel	Bone marrow stimulation: For decades, anabolic steroids were the mainstay of therapy for hypoplastic anemias due to leukemia or kidney failure, especially aplastic anemia .	Anabolic steroids have largely been replaced in this setting by synthetic protein hormones (such as epoetin alfa) that selectively stimulate growth of blood cell precursors. 
noLabel	A United Nations Human Rights Council fact-finding mission was charged by the UN to undertake an investigation of the IDF raid .	In its September 2010 report the UN panel found that the IDF broke international law, and that there was evidence sufficient to initiate prosecutions for breaches of the Geneva Convention.
noLabel	In 2005, California State Senator, Leland Yee introduced California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793 which barred ultra-violent video games and mandated the application of ESRB ratings for video games.	Yee, a former child psychologist has publicly criticized such games as Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas and Manhunt 2, and opposes the U.S. Army's Global Gaming League.
noLabel	Sexism in India refers to beliefs or attitudes in India that one gender or sex is inferior to, less competent, or less valuable than the other.	Discrimination and violence against women is prevalent, and sexual harassment at the workplace and lack of education continue to be identified as major problems .
noLabel	At the FedEx Orange Bowl on January 2, 2007, Ali was an honorary captain for the Louisville Cardinals wearing their white jersey, number 19.	Ali was accompanied by golf legend Arnold Palmer, who was the honorary captain for the Wake Forest Demon Deacons, and Miami Heat star Dwyane Wade. 
noLabel	Scholars of Talmudic and Medieval rabbinic law draw a sharp contrast between the theologies behind Jewish and Catholic opposition to abortion.	After favorably reviewing Christian opposition to abortion, Immanuel Jakobovits writes in Jewish Medical Ethics: "In Jewish law, the right to destroy a human fruit before birth is entirely unrelated to theological considerations.
noLabel	Though the USSR had nuclear weapon capabilities in the beginning of the Cold War, the US still had an advantage in terms of bombers and weapons.	In any exchange of hostilities, the US would have been capable of bombing the USSR, while the USSR would have more difficulty carrying out the reverse mission. 
noLabel	It differed significantly from the requirements of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which only required organizations to document their practices once there was a preliminary finding of wrongdoing.	This Executive Order required that the businesses it covered to maintain and furnish documentation of hiring and employment practices upon request . 
noLabel	Pre-existing disparities in wealth are exacerbated by tax policies that reward investment over waged income, subsidize mortgages, and subsidize private sector developers .	However, according to the US Census, the highest percentage of citizens in America living below the poverty line are white Americans, and not African Americans .
noLabel	Until the 1970s, all state school students were required to sit an 11+ exam at that age, and the more able students would then be offered a place at a local grammar school, as opposed to a secondary modern school.	Although these have generally been replaced by all ability comprehensive schools, some grammar schools (often the ones with an established heritage) were able to become independent. 
noLabel	Because it is impossible to be certain of shooting down every ballistic missile, it is preferable to ensure that the weapons cannot be manufactured in the first place.	An attack on a plutonium production reactor, such as that carried out by the Israelis on the Iraqi reactor complex at Osirak (Operation Opera), may prevent or delay later nuclear attacks, though such an act could be seen as an act of war and subject to retaliation (albeit with conventional weaponry).
noLabel	In 1917, a number of radicals and anarchists, including Emma Goldman, challenged the new draft law in federal court arguing that it was a direct violation of the Thirteenth Amendment's prohibition against slavery and involuntary servitude.	However the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the constitutionality of the draft act in the Selective Draft Law Cases on January 7, 1918.
noLabel	The Right to Petition granted by Edgar the Peaceful, King of England in the 10th century, antedates the Magna Carta in terms of its significance in the development of democratic institutions.	As currently conceived, the right claims that democracy cannot function if there are, or if interest groups can erect, barriers between the governed and the governing . 
noLabel	The view that abortion should in most or all circumstances be legal generally rests on the claims: (1) that women have a right to control what happens in and to their own bodies; (2) that abortion is a just exercise of this right; and (3) that the law should not criminalize just exercises of the right to control one’s own body.	Both sides of the debate would grant premise (3) of the central pro-life argument and premises (1) and (3) of the central pro-choice argument. 
noLabel	It is said that when someone is given the label of a criminal, they may reject it or accept it and go on to commit crime.	Even those that initially reject the label can eventually accept it as the label becomes more well known particularly amongst their peers.
noLabel	Other proponents such as the late William James consider both mandatory military and national service as ways of instilling maturity in young adults .	Some proponents such as Jonathan Alter and Mickey Kaus support a draft in order to reinforce social equality, create social consciousness, break down class divisions and for young adults to immerse themselves in public enterprise .
noLabel	California Senator Leland Yee introduced the original law in 2005, believing a connection between violent video games and aggressive behavior in children, and sought to regulate the voluntary video game industry ratings review system, the Entertainment Software Rating Board.	Though similar laws were passed in other States, they were challenged by video game industry groups like the Entertainment Software Association, and defeated in lower courts.
noLabel	California Assembly Bills 1792 & 1793 were two bills introduced by Speaker pro Tempore of the Assembly Leland Yee (D-San Francisco/Daly City).	Commonly called the "ultraviolent video games bills" or simply "video game ban" bills, these two bills restricted sales of "ultraviolent" video games from minors under the age of 18 in California.
noLabel	Children of Shack age and above are expected to take a more active role in running the school, standing for committees, chairing the meetings, acting as Ombudsmen to resolve disputes and speaking in the school meetings.	Of course, younger children can take on most of these roles if they so wish, and none of them are compulsory even for the older children.
noLabel	Most inhalant drugs that are used non-medically are ingredients in household or industrial chemical products that are not intended to be concentrated and inhaled, including organic solvents (found in cleaning products, fast-drying glues, and nail polish removers), fuels (gasoline (petrol) and kerosene), and propellant gases such as Freon and compressed hydrofluorocarbons that are used in aerosol cans such as hairspray, whipped cream, and non-stick cooking spray.	A small number of recreational inhalant drugs are pharmaceutical products that are used illicitly, such as anesthetics (ether and nitrous oxide) and volatile anti-angina drugs (alkyl nitrites). 
noLabel	The leading figure in the Japanese atomic program was Dr. Yoshio Nishina, a close associate of Niels Bohr and a contemporary of Albert Einstein .	Nishina was a highly skilled world class physicist with excellent leadership qualities, who co-authored the Klein-Nishina Formula .Nishina had established his own Nuclear Research Laboratory to study high-energy physics in 1931 at Riken Institute (the Institute for Physical and Chemical Research), which had been established in 1917 in Tokyo to promote basic research .
noLabel	Those with high racial identification were more likely to give responses which concurred with modern racist attitudes than those with low racial identification .	According to the studies' authors these findings suggest that representing inequality in terms of outgroup disadvantage allows privileged group members to avoid the negative implications of inequality . 
noLabel	John Taylor later found, using the Piers-Harris Children's Self-Concept Scale, "while half of the conventionally schooled children scored at or below the 50th percentile (in self-concept), only 10.3% of the home-schooling children did so.	" He further stated that "the self-concept of home-schooling children is significantly higher (and very much so statistically) than that of children attending the conventional school.
noLabel	On the day of the passage of the measure itself, there was an explosion of street violence by enraged students and their allies, especially in London.	There is an ongoing law enforcement investigation into, and even active pursuing of, the participants of the violence over the various protest days, with particular attention focusing on the moments when a number of protesters successfully attacked a royal car driving on its way to a London event, although they did not injure its occupants.
noLabel	By the time the special session resumed on September 4, the number of bills filed for consideration by the Assembly had risen to more than 70 .	Stanley's supporters led off the debate in both chambers of the Assembly, but Stanley's political position had weakened and media observers felt that he was close to compromising even further on his program .
noLabel	Most nations have some form of Official Secrets Act (the Espionage Act in the U.S.) and classify material according to the level of protection needed (hence the term "classified information").	An individual needs a security clearance for access and other protection methods, such as keeping documents in a safe, are stipulated. 
noLabel	Most major religions accept the primacy of the rules of secular, democratic society but may still seek to influence political decisions or achieve specific privileges or influence through church-state agreements such as a concordat.	Many Christians support a secular state, and may acknowledge that the conception has support in Biblical teachings, particularly Jesus' statement, "Then give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
noLabel	From the perspective of the developing world, the benefits of forest as carbon sinks or biodiversity reserves go primarily to richer developed nations and there is insufficient compensation for these services.	Developing countries feel that some countries in the developed world, such as the United States of America, cut down their forests centuries ago and benefited greatly from this deforestation, and that it is hypocritical to deny developing countries the same opportunities: that the poor shouldn't have to bear the cost of preservation when the rich created the problem . 
noLabel	With heightened realism provided by the use of digitized actors rather than hand-drawn characters, the game featured vicious combinations of fighting moves, Romero-worthy bloodletting and vocal exhortations to "finish" your enemy with special "fatalities."	Possibly the most controversial fighting game ever released, Mortal Kombat's blend of over-the-top violence and thrilling fights proved irresistible to gamers, turning it into a tremendous success and laying the foundation for a franchise that continues to this day. 
noLabel	Domestic-level benefit-sharing measures are to provide for the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources with the contracting party providing genetic resources.	Utilization includes research and development on the genetic or biochemical composition of genetic resources, as well as subsequent applications and commercialization.
noLabel	In the fact that adults have entered into prior agreements, children intuit a seriousness and a web of relations in the life that surrounds them.	If it is a bit mysterious, it is also impressive and somewhat attractive; they see it quite correctly as the way of the world, and they are not indifferent to its benefits and demands . 
noLabel	Dr. Haluk Ince, the director of Istanbul's Medical Examination Institute, said that "from the analysis of the bullet distance on one of the bodies, the gun was fired between 2 and 14 centimeters' distance from the victim's head.	" Doğan was shot five times from less than 45&nbsp;cm, in the face, in the back of the head, twice in the leg and once in the back . 
noLabel	If elected, McCain pledges to create a "league of democracies" with the purpose of addressing those conflicts without the approval of China and Russia .	Obama stated he regards Iran's government as "a threat to all of us," stating that the US "should take no option, including military action, off the table.
noLabel	Ireland's Office of Tobacco Control website indicates that "an evaluation of the official hospitality sector data shows there has been no adverse economic effect from the introduction of this measure (the March 2004 national introduction of smoke-free in bars, restaurants, etc).	It has been claimed that the smoke-free law was a significant contributing factor to the closure of hundreds of small rural pubs, with almost 440 fewer licences renewed in 2006 than in 2005 .
noLabel	However, a slight majority of Americans do believe that affirmative action goes beyond ensuring access and goes into the realm of preferential treatment .	More recently, a Quinnipiac poll from June 2009 finds that 55% of Americans feel that affirmative action should be abolished, yet 55% support affirmative action for disabled people . 
noLabel	Domestically, Aung San Suu Kyi's party, National League for Democracy will participate in the by-election after the government abolished laws that led to NLD's boycott .	However, uncertainties exist as more than 1,600 political prisoners are not yet released and the clashes between Burmese Army and local insurgent groups continue. 
noLabel	Italian noblewoman Matilda of Tuscany (1046–1115) is remembered for her military accomplishments and for being the principal Italian supporter of Pope Gregory VII during the Investiture Controversy.	Saint Hedwig of Silesia (1174–1243) supported the poor and the church in Eastern Europe and Jadwiga of Poland reigned as monarch of Poland and is the patron saint of queens and of a "united Europe" .
noLabel	Immediately after the first successful test flight of the SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket, Hutchison issued a statement dismissing the value of SpaceX, which has approximately 10% of its workforce in Texas and is one of the fastest growing employers in the state.	"This first successful test flight of SpaceX's Falcon 9 rocket is a belated sign that efforts to develop modest commercial space cargo capabilities are showing some promising signs," Hutchison said.
noLabel	Joseph Romm contends that nuclear power generates about 20 percent of all U.S. electricity, and because it is a low-carbon source of around-the-clock power, it has received renewed interest in recent years .	Yet, Romm argues, nuclear power’s "own myriad limitations will constrain its growth, especially in the near term", and the limitations include: . 
noLabel	In response the US government placed Thailand on the list of "copyright violators" despite the fact that the production of antiviral drugs is not subject to copyright, even in the United States.	In 2007 the government of Brazil declared Merck's efavirenz anti-retroviral drug a "public interest" medicine, and challenged Merck to negotiate lower prices with the government or have Brazil strip the patent by issuing a compulsory license . 
noLabel	Chircac then won the election but the inclusion of Le Pen in the second round was highly controversial, because of what many considered his 'extreme' political views.	Le Pen was an unpopular candidate, as testified by the fact that he won only 18% of the vote in the second round.
noLabel	Himmler's right-hand man, Reinhard Heydrich, recommended concentrating all the Polish Jews in ghettos in major cities, where they would be put to work for the German war industry.	The ghettos would be in cities located on railway junctions, so that, in Heydrich's words, "future measures can be accomplished more easily.
noLabel	Internet censorship circumvention is the processes used by technologically savvy Internet users to bypass the technical aspects of Internet filtering and gain access to otherwise censored material.	Circumvention is an inherent problem for those wishing to censor the Internet, because filtering and blocking do not remove content from the Internet but rather block access to it.
noLabel	Further, due to the nature of online interaction, where identity and anonymity are more readily managed than in direct interaction, the effects of offline social inequity can often be discounted in online communities.	Intelligence, effort, education, and personality may be readily conveyed in an online interaction but a person's gender, race, religion, and social standing can be easily obfuscated or left entirely unaddressed.
noLabel	The right to freedom of speech and expression is closely related to other rights, and may be limited when conflicting with other rights (see Limitations on freedom of speech) .	The right to freedom of expression is also related to the right to a fair trial and court proceeding which may limit access to the search for information or determine the opportunity and means in which freedom of expression is manifested within court proceedings .
noLabel	The combination of the hormone's effectiveness with the inability to trace its use can be irresistible to someone looking for a competitive advantage.	The good news is more players are steering away from experimenting with steroids, said Brad Andress, the strength coach for the Colorado Rockies.
noLabel	In many parts of the United States, after the 1954 decision in the landmark court case Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka that demanded US schools desegregate "with all deliberate speed", local families organized a wave of private "Christian academies".	In much of the US South, many white students migrated to the academies, while public schools became in turn more heavily concentrated with African American students (see List of private schools in Mississippi).
noLabel	The remaining two-thirds of the 73 point gap accumulate over the course of the elementary and middle school years, with a staggering 48.5 points being attributed to the cumulative summer learning gap from the five elementary years.	As these data show, virtually the entire achievement gap reflects differences between low-SES and high-SES students’ home environments, with cognitive gains during the school year being relatively equal between both groups. 
noLabel	A typical pricing structure charges $1.00 for White males, $.75 for White females, $.50 for Latino, Black, Asian, and Native American males and $.25 for Latino, Black, Asian, and Native American females.	The bake sales' hosts do not support this kind of preferential treatment; rather, they argue that this preferential pricing is analogous to the preferential treatment created by affirmative action policies. 
noLabel	To deal with any casualties that could result from a naval interception from the flotilla, the Israeli Navy converted the mess halls on two vessels into operating rooms fully equipped for surgery, and planned for them to feature a full medical staff, including surgeons and anesthesiologists.	Medevac helicopters were also planned be at hand in case any of the injured needed to be evacuated to hospitalized in Israel, and Medical Corps personnel were to be deployed at the port of Ashdod . 
noLabel	In 2011, the British Acoustics Bulletin published what is now the 10th independent review of the evidence on wind farms causing annoyance and ill health in people.	And for the 10th time it has emphasised that "annoyance has far more to do with social and psychological factors in those complaining than any direct effect from sound or inaudible infrasound emanating from wind turbines" . 
noLabel	Engineering technicians and technologists continued in the traditional approach from the golden age attended the local technical college (1 day and 2 evenings per week) on a City & Guilds programme or Ordinary National Certificate / Higher National Certificate course.	In effect becoming a chartered engineer via the apprenticeship route involved 10 – 12 years of both academic and vocational training at an employer, college of further education and university.
noLabel	It is a "symbiotic relationship" in the sense that lobbying firms can exploit the "experience and connections gleaned from working inside the legislative process", and lawmakers find a "ready pool of experienced talent.	" There is movement in the other direction as well: one report found that 605 former lobbyists had taken jobs working for lawmakers over a ten-year period .
noLabel	The senate version of the bill, , was introduced on January 6, 2009, and later substituted as an amendment to the House bill, .	It was sponsored by Harry Reid, the Majority Leader, co-sponsored by 16 other Democrats and Joe Lieberman, an independent who caucuses with the Democrats. 
noLabel	The Gender-related Development Index (GDI) was introduced in 1995 in the Human Development Report written by the United Nations Development Program in order to add a gender-sensitive dimension to the Human Development Index (HDI).	The GDI takes in to account not only the average or general level of well-being and wealth within a given country, but focuses also on how this wealth and well-being is distributed between different groups within society, especially those between genders .
noLabel	After the events of the 2011 flotilla raid, organizations from several countries declared their intention to send more ships to break the blockade on Gaza.	As a result, the Israeli government announced that the any ships attempting to break the blockade of the Gaza Strip would be arrested. 
noLabel	In December 2009, USADA launched , in partnership with the National Football League, Major League Baseball, the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Hockey League, the U.S. Olympic Committee and other national sports and health organizations, to end, what the founding organizations feel, is the existence of dangerous and unscrupulous practices of “rogue” manufacturers within the nutritional supplement industry.	The effort, called “Supplement Safety Now,” works to eliminate the practice of selling supplement products containing steroids and other drugs which are labeled as “safe and legal” dietary supplements.
noLabel	During the Gregorian Reform of the 11th century, the Church developed and codified a view of marriage as a sacrament .	In a departure from societal norms, Church law required the consent of both parties before a marriage could be performed and established a minimum age for marriage .
noLabel	Summer holidays start around the last week of May or the first week of June for secondary schools, or the end of June for primary education, and end around the last week in August or the first week in September.	The Junior Certificate and Leaving Certificate exams start on the first Wednesday in June, and last for two and a half weeks, intruding on students' summer holidays which are amongst the longest in the world for secondary schools.
noLabel	The Brazilian Wind Energy Association and the government have set a goal of achieving 10 gigawatts of wind energy capacity by 2020 from the current 605 megawatts, with another 450 megawatts under construction.	The industry hopes the auction will help kick-start the wind-energy sector, which already accounts for 70% of the total in all of Latin America .
noLabel	Some after-school activities are provided free of charge at the point of delivery, while the majority are for-profit businesses which charge for membership.	They are sometimes government-funded, especially where it is believed that the parents may not be providing a good home environment, and so professional care may be better.
noLabel	Congressional ethics experts said the difference in rent between what Rangel was paying and market rates, an estimated $30,000 per year, could be construed as a gift, exceeding the $100 House of Representatives gift limit .	In late July, the House voted 254–138 to table a resolution by Republican Minority Leader John Boehner that would have censured Rangel for having "dishonored himself and brought discredit to the House", by occupying the four apartments .
noLabel	(The London Prize Ring Rules later specifically stated that a fighter must "walk to his own side of the scratch unaided" (emphasis added) or lose the fight.)	Bare-knuckle rules also allowed grappling and throws, and some of the deaths were caused by a fighter hitting his head on a stone or rail .
noLabel	On 21 February 2012 the Eurogroup finalized the second bailout package (see below), which was extended from €109 billion to €130 billion.	In a marathon meeting in Brussels private holders of governmental bonds accepted a slightly bigger haircut of 53.5% Creditors are invited to swap their Greek bonds into new 3.65% bonds with a maturity of 30 years, thus facilitating a €107bn debt reduction for Greece .
noLabel	The melting pot is a metaphor for a heterogeneous society becoming more homogeneous, the different elements "melting together" into a harmonious whole with a common culture.	It is particularly used to describe the assimilation of immigrants to the United States; the melting-together metaphor was in use by the 1780s. 
noLabel	For the great majority of Jews resistance could take only the passive forms of delay, evasion, negotiation, bargaining and, where possible, bribery of German officials.	The Nazis encouraged this by forcing the Jewish communities to police themselves, through bodies such as the Reich Association of Jews (Reichsvereinigung der Juden) in Germany and the Jewish Councils (Judenräte) in the urban ghettos in occupied Poland.
noLabel	Examples of dominant party systems include the People's Action Party in Singapore, the African National Congress in South Africa, the Human Rights Protection Party in Samoa, and the Democratic Party of Socialists of Montenegro in Montenegro.	One party dominant systems also existed in Mexico with the Institutional Revolutionary Party until the 1990s, in the southern United States with the Democratic Party from the late 19th century until the 1970s, in Indonesia with the Golongan Karya (Party of the Functional Groups) from the early 1970s until 1998, and in Japan with the Liberal Democratic Party until 2009.
noLabel	In November 2005 Jiang Wenran, acting director of the China Institute at the University of Alberta, said this system was one of the most strictly enforced 'apartheid' structures in modern world history .	He stated "Urban dwellers enjoy a range of social, economic and cultural benefits while peasants, the majority of the Chinese population, are treated as second-class citizens" . 
noLabel	Peace movements emerged in Japan and in 1954 they converged to form a unified "Japanese Council Against Atomic and Hydrogen Bombs".	Japanese opposition to nuclear weapons tests in the Pacific Ocean was widespread, and "an estimated 35 million signatures were collected on petitions calling for bans on nuclear weapons" . 
noLabel	One of the most clear indications of the social roots of learning disabilities is the disproportionate identification of racial and ethnic minorities and students who have low socioeconomic status (SES).	While some attribute the disproportionate identification of racial/ethnic minorities to racist practices or cultural misunderstanding, others have argued that racial/ethnic minorities are overidentified because of their lower average SES .
noLabel	However, the term "lobbying" is generally used in the public sphere to describe a paid activity with the purpose of attempting to "influence or sway" a public official, including bureaucrats as well as elected officials, towards a desired specific action often relating to specific legislation .	If advocacy is disseminating information, including attempts to educate public officials as well as the public and media, to plead the cause of something and support it, then when this activity becomes focused on specific legislation, either in support or in opposition, then it crosses the line from advocacy and becomes lobbying .
noLabel	The increasingly common practice of drug testing has led to an increase in the number of drug users looking for ways to beat the tests, and has spawned a number of myths and urban legends as a result.	However, this does not stop users from getting creative in their attempts to somehow shorten the detection times and/or mask the contents of their fluid specimens, with varying degrees of success or lack thereof.
noLabel	Concerning the restrictions on goods reaching Gaza via the land crossings the Palmer report stated that they were the main reason for a unsustainable and unacceptable humanitarian situation in Gaza .	UN envoy Desmond Tutu, United Nations Human Rights Council head Navi Pillay, the International Committee of the Red Cross and, according to Richard Falk, most experts on international law consider the blockade illegal .
noLabel	On July 2, 2009, North Korea test fired a series of at least four surface-to-ship cruise missiles into the Sea of Japan (East Sea).	Two days later, on July 4, they proceeded to test fire a further seven Scud-type ballistic missiles into the same sea .
noLabel	The second is title, which is the expectation that others will recognize rights to control resource, even when it is not in possession.	He elaborates the differences between these two concepts, and proposes a history of how they came to be attached to persons, as opposed to families or entities such as the church. 
noLabel	" Such instincts also played a role when the governments of fourteen industrialized nations intervened in the civil war that followed the Russian revolution.	Likewise, when the Industrial Workers of the World became the target of government intervention during the period from 1917 to 1921, the governments of the United States, Australia and Canada acted simultaneously. 
noLabel	Laws in many countries and states require sperm donors to be either anonymous or known to the recipient, or the laws restrict the number of children each donor may father.	Although many donors choose to remain anonymous, new technologies such as the Internet and DNA technology have opened up new avenues for those wishing to know more about the biological father, siblings and half-siblings.
noLabel	5.6% of Canadian students are educated in private schools, the majority of which are religious schools, with a minority regarded as elite private schools.	Private schools have sometimes been controversial, with some in the media and in Ontario's Provincial Ministry of Education claiming that a private education gives students an unfair advantage .
noLabel	On November 27, 2010, Microsoft released Kinect as a peripheral for the Xbox 360; it was packaged with the console as well.	It uses a sensor and dual-camera device to track the motion of the players themselves, becoming the first motion control system capable of tracking the player in 3D space without the need for a controller.
noLabel	The methodological individualist points out that "we" in fact did not enact or carry out this policy; among those who voted, a certain group of people voted for the policy, individuals all, and another group voted against it.	The decision that emerged was not made by the "people", or by the "government"; it was made by those on the winning side of the vote.
noLabel	Nader is a strong supporter of solar energy and wants to end government subsidies for the fossil fuel and nuclear energy industries .	He says "technologies are way ahead of the political framework" and envisions a "massive conversion from a hydrocarbon-based economy to a carbohydrate-based economy" within 20 to 25 years .
noLabel	Corporations considering lobbying run into substantial barriers to entry: corporations have to research the relevant laws about lobbying, hire lobbying firms, and cultivate influential people and make connections .	When an issue regarding a change in immigration policy arose, large corporations currently lobbying switched focus somewhat to take account of the new regulatory world, but that new corporations—even ones likely to be affected by any possible rulings on immigration—stayed out of the lobbying fray, according to the study . 
noLabel	The activities of present-day welfare states extend to the provision of both cash welfare benefits (such as old-age pensions or unemployment benefits) and in-kind welfare services (such as health or childcare services).	Through these provisions, welfare states can affect the distribution of wellbeing and personal autonomy among their citizens, as well as influencing how their citizens consume and how they spend their time .
noLabel	A list of items which Israel allowed for commercial import has been compiled by the BBC from information from international groups including Israeli Human Rights Organisation Gisha.	Humanitarian organisations, including UN agencies, which also bring goods into Gaza have their items approved or rejected on "a case-by-case basis".
noLabel	|- Mercosur released an official statement expressing "concern and repudiation towards the spiral of violence and intimidation taking place in the Gaza Strip".	The organisation urged "both sides to end hostilities and formulate a call for the immediate resumption of dialogue, so as to ensure peace and justice in the region" .
noLabel	In May 2007, McCain conceded to Fox News Channel's Bill O'Reilly that passage of amnesty will permanently change the ethnic makeup of the country.	He supports a path to citizenship for an estimated twelve to twenty million immigrants, on the condition of a thirteen year waiting period . 
noLabel	The highest tuition fee allowed by law was, as of 2010, of 14.97 euros per academic credit, amounting to roughly 840 euros/year for an average 60 credit full time course); tuition fees in private universities might reach 18,000 euros/year in comparison.	Public universities are state-owned but granted a considerable degree of independence when it comes to self-government; they cannot, however, make free use of their assets (i.e., buy and sell assets as a private company would), and are subject to Spanish administrative law as any other public body of the state.
noLabel	The overuse of technologies like Adobe Flash in online advertising has led to some users disabling it in their browsers, or using browser plug-ins like Adblock or NoScript.	Many sites use centralized advertising services whose advertisement may be blocked as a side effect of security and privacy measures, because the services require JavaScript and cross-site requests to function, while such features are often not necessary to use the sites and are a potential source of vulnerabilities. 
noLabel	The EI system was again cut by the Progressive Conservatives in 1990 and 1993, then by the Liberals in 1994 and 1996.	Amendments made it harder to qualify by increasing the time needed to be worked, although seasonal claimants (who work long hours over short periods) turned out to gain from the replacement, in 1996, of weeks by hours to qualify.
noLabel	The weakness to this style is that when a fighter is stationary and not rotating he is open to be hit, so a fighter must be athletic and well conditioned to effectively execute this style.	To beat this style fighters like to jab their opponent's shoulder causing the shoulder and arm to be in pain and to demobilize that arm. 
noLabel	This high rate of decomposition is the result of phosphorus levels in the soils, precipitation, high temperatures and the extensive microorganism communities .	In addition to the bacteria and other microorganisms, there are an abundance of other decomposers such as fungi and termites that aid in the process as well.
noLabel	Yam, Coffee, chocolate, banana, mango, papaya, macadamia, avocado, and sugarcane all originally came from tropical rainforest and are still mostly grown on plantations in regions that were formerly primary forest.	In the mid-1980s and 90s, 40 million tons of bananas were consumed worldwide each year, along with 13 million tons of mango.
noLabel	Sweden ranked either as the first or second country publishing the highest number of scientific publications in the fields of medical science, natural science and engineering in 2001.	Sweden was world-leading in medical science and second only to Switzerland in natural science and engineering in terms of the number of publications per capita.
noLabel	A related but slightly different criticism is that the problem with lobbying as it exists today is that it creates an "inequity of access to the decision-making process" .	As a result, important needs get left out of the political evaluation, such that there are no anti-hunger lobbies or lobbies seeking serious solutions to the problem of poverty .
noLabel	Intangible cultural heritage is slightly different from the discipline of oral history, the recording, preservation and interpretation of historical information (specifically, oral tradition), based on the personal experiences and opinions of the speaker.	ICH attempts to preserve cultural heritage 'with' the people or community by protecting the processes that allow traditions and shared knowledge to be passed on while oral history seeks to collect and preserve historical information obtained from individuals and groups.
noLabel	Moore then grabbed a pistol from one of the police officers and shot and killed him along with another officer and dispatcher before fleeing in a police car .	One of Moore's attorneys, Jack Thompson, claimed it was GTAs graphic nature—with his constant playing time—that caused Moore to commit the murders, and Moore's family agrees.
noLabel	There still exist laws regarding fornication in some places, which may or may not be enforced depending on the current prevailing societal views in the jurisdiction.	The term premarital sex, implies an origin where the word referred to sex prior to marriage; in this context it usually meant sex between young people who were not yet married.
noLabel	In 2003, a ban on certain assault rifles was passed restricting citizens from possessing military-style rifles such as the AK-47 and the M-16, among other assault rifles .	In 2007, an additional decree suspended the right to openly carry a firearm in public as well as limiting the amount of firearms allowed per person .
noLabel	On 3 December, PayPal, the payment processor owned by eBay, permanently cut off the account of the Wau Holland Foundation that had been redirecting donations to WikiLeaks.	PayPal alleged that the account violated its "Acceptable Use Policy", specifically that the account was used for "activities that encourage, promote, facilitate or instruct others to engage in illegal activity.
noLabel	" Seth Schiesel of the New York Times proposed that the Court's decision should be a challenge to the industry to show that they can mature on the decision that video games are a form of art, questioning the industry "Will you use it as cover to pump out schlock or will you rise to the opportunity and respectability that has been afforded you?	" Schiesel also considered that games that are more interactive may help players to become more aware of the consequences of their actions . 
noLabel	In June 1967, the US Federal Communications Commission ruled that programmes broadcast on a television station which discussed smoking and health were insufficient to offset the effects of paid advertisements that were broadcast for five to ten minutes each day.	In April 1970, the US Congress passed the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act banning the advertising of cigarettes on television and radio starting on January 2, 1971 . 
noLabel	Stratification in the educational system is further diminished by providing all Swedish citizens and legal residents with the option of choosing which school they want their children to be placed in, regardless of what neighborhood they reside in or what property taxes they pay.	Additionally, the Swedish government not only provides its citizens with a free college education, but also with an actual monthly allowance for attending school and college . 
noLabel	", noting: "As the increase of foreign migrants in Korea transforms a single-ethnic homogenous Korean society into multiethnic and multicultural one, Korean government and the civil society pay close attention to multiculturalism as an alternative value to their policy and social movement."	He argued, however, that "the current discourses and concerns on multiculturalism in Korea" lacked "the constructive and analytical concepts for transforming a society" . 
noLabel	The gambler's fallacy implicitly involves an assertion of negative correlation between trials of the random process and therefore involves a denial of the exchangeability of outcomes of the random process.	In other words, one implicitly assigns a higher chance of occurrence to an event even though from the point of view of "nature" or the "experiment", all such events are equally probable (or distributed in a known way).
noLabel	§ 16-11-40), Idaho (Idaho Code, § 18-4801-18-4809), Kansas (Kansas Statute Annotated, §21-4004), Louisiana (Louisiana R.S., 14:47), Michigan (Michigan Compiled Laws, § 750.370), Minnesota (Minnesota Statutes.	§ 609.765), Montana (Montana Code Annotated, § 13-35-234), Nevada (Nevada Revised Statutes §§ 200.510-200.560), New Hampshire (New Hampshire Revised Statute Annotated, § 644:11), New Mexico (New Mexico Statute Annotated, §30-11-1), North Carolina (North Carolina General Statutes, § 14-47), North Dakota (North Dakota Century Code, § 12.1-15-01), Oklahoma (Oklahoma Statutes, tit.
noLabel	On 21 December 2006, Irving was technically "expelled" from Austria; he was banned from ever returning to the country again .	Upon Irving's arrival in the UK he reaffirmed his position, stating that he felt "no need any longer to show remorse" for his Holocaust views .
noLabel	Freedom of religion is a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or community, in public or private, to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance; the concept is generally recognized also to include the freedom to change religion or not to follow any religion .	The freedom to leave or discontinue membership in a religion or religious group —in religious terms called "apostasy" —is also a fundamental part of religious freedom, covered by Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . 
noLabel	Some studies have found that, when self-selection is controlled for, the built environment has no significant effect on travel behaviour .	More recent studies using more sophisticated methodologies have generally refuted these findings: density, land use and public transport accessibility can influence travel behaviour, although social and economic factors, particularly household income, usually exert a stronger influence .
noLabel	For those who are not monogamous, reducing the number of one's sexual partners, particularly anonymous sexual partners, may also reduce one's potential exposure to STIs.	Similarly, one may restrict one's sexual contact to a community of trusted individuals—this is the approach taken by some pornographic actors and other non-monogamous people. 
noLabel	For example, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Tanzania have carried out elaborate responses to conserve individual species and specific habitats.	The United States of America, a signatory who has not yet ratified the treaty, has produced one of the most thorough implementation programs through species Recovery Programs and other mechanisms long in place in the USA for species conservation. 
noLabel	Tony Saint followed up the success of Refusal Shoes with a sequel, Blag ISBN 1852428449, 2004, which dealt with work in immigration enforcement.	Like all good caricatures immigration officers who have read the books, of which there are many, can see situations and characters with which and whom they can relate but it needs to be emphasised that the work is not quite as bad as depicted - honestly. 
noLabel	According to historian Daniel Richter, Pontiac's Rebellion saw the emergence on both sides of the conflict of "the novel idea that all Native people were 'Indians,' that all Euro-Americans were 'Whites,' and that all on one side must unite to destroy the other."	(Richter, Facing East from Indian Country, p.&nbsp;208) Basil Davidson insists in his documentary, Africa: Different but Equal, that racism, in fact, only just recently surfaced—as late as the 19th century, due to the need for a justification for slavery in the Americas. 
noLabel	Famous fighters of prize ring include William "Bendigo" Thompson, Tom Cribb, Jack Broughton, James "Deaf" Burke, "Professor" Mike Donovan, Tom Allen, Samuel "Dutch Sam" Elias, John "Gentleman" Jackson, the "Benicia Boy" John Carmel Heenan, Daniel Mendoza, Tom Molineaux, John "Old Smoke" Morrisey, Tom Sayers, Owen Swift, the "Trojan Giant" Paddy Ryan, Joe Goss, and James "Yankee Sullivan" Ambrose,Arhan Deshmukh.	England's last prize ring great was "gypsy" Jem Mace, and America's was John L. Sullivan -- both men fought under both sets of rules, with and without gloves and are considered bridges to the modern era of boxing. 
noLabel	In Germany, Chancellor Otto von Bismarck created the modern welfare state by building on a tradition of welfare programs in Prussia and Saxony that began as early as in the 1840s, and by winning the support of business.	In the 1880s he introduced old age pensions, accident insurance, medical care and unemployment insurance that formed the basis of the modern European welfare state.
noLabel	Definitions of mild traumatic brain injury (M.T.B.I) have been inconsistent since the 1970s, but the World Health Organization's International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD-10) described MTBI-related conditions in 1992, providing a consistent, authoritative definition across specialties .	In 1993, the American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine defined MTBI as 30&nbsp;minutes or fewer of loss of consciousness (LOC), 24&nbsp;hours or fewer of post-traumatic amnesia (PTA), and a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of at least 13 .
noLabel	If either man falls through weakness or otherwise, he must get up unassisted, 10 seconds to be allowed him to do so, the other man meanwhile to return to his corner, and when the fallen man is on his legs the round is to be resumed and continued until the three minutes have expired.	If one man fails to come to the scratch in the 10 seconds allowed, it shall be in the power of the referee to give his award in favour of the other man. 
noLabel	Intangible cultural heritage is passed orally within a community, and while there may be individuals who are known tradition bearers, ICH is often broader than one individual's own skills or knowledge.	A 2006 report by the government of Newfoundland and Labrador said, regarding oral culture in their area, "The processes involved in the continuation of this traditional knowledge constitute one of the most interesting aspects of our living heritage.
noLabel	" Islamic Lawyers Forum attorney, Chaudhry Zulfikar Ali, told Xinhua News Agency, "The competition has hurt the sentiments of the Muslims.	" Protesters against Facebook and "Everybody Draw Mohammed Day" converged in Karachi on May 19, 2010, and held up signs and yelled phrases critical of Facebook .
noLabel	" "The greatest damage done by advertising is precisely that it incessantly demonstrates the prostitution of men and women who lend their intellects, their voices, their artistic skills to purposes in which they themselves do not believe, and ….	that it helps to shatter and ultimately destroy our most precious non-material possessions: the confidence in the existence of meaningful purposes of human activity and respect for the integrity of man.
noLabel	Coming of age is an event; passing a series of tests to demonstrate the child is prepared for adulthood; or reaching a specified age, sometimes in conjunction with demonstrating preparation.	Most modern societies determine legal adulthood based on reaching a legally specified age without requiring a demonstration of physical maturity or preparation for adulthood. 
noLabel	The organization describes its mission: “We inspire girls to be joyful, healthy and confident using a fun, experience-based curriculum which creatively integrates running.” To achieve this goal, it describes its vision as “To provide life-changing, high quality programs for girls; To provide life-changing and high quality experiences to the women developing and delivering the programs; To promote and provide an environment that allows girls and women to reach their full potential; To positively transform how girls and women perceive themselves and their place in society” .	It accomplishes these goals by combining training for a running race with lessons to enhance the participants' social, physical, and mental health .
noLabel	From the inception of Marlboro's "Marlboro chevron" advertising in CART in the late 1980s until 2009, the Patrick, and later Penske, teams, in CART (1986–2001) and IRL (2002–09) were painted in full Marlboro livery and carried the colours.	In international CART events where tobacco advertising was banned, in the IRL races in 2001 (because of Master Settlement Agreement restrictions), and in 2008 and 2009, the cars kept the colours but simply stated "Team Penske".
noLabel	As mentioned before, supervision (indirect care work) may not be "construe[d] as an activity at all", which “suggests that activity-based surveys should be supplemented by more stylized questions regarding care responsibilities” as these activities may be undercounted .	In the past, time use studies tended to measure only primary activities, and "respondents doing two or more things at once were asked to indicate which was the more important", although this is changing in more recent years.
noLabel	St. Dominic founded the Dominican movement in France in the 12th century and Dominican nuns have gathered in contemplative religious communities ever since .	Dominican sisters, looking to Saint Catherine of Siena for inspiration, also live in religious community but have more independence and work in ministries such as education and care of the sick . 
noLabel	For a fission weapon to operate, there must be a critical mass&mdash;the amount needed for a self-sustaining nuclear chain reaction&mdash;of fissile material bombarded with neutrons at any one time.	The simplest form of nuclear weapon is a gun-type fission weapon, where a sub-critical mass of fissile material (such as uranium-235) would be shot at another sub-critical mass of fissile material.
noLabel	Monotheists hold that there is only one god, and may claim that the one true god is worshiped in different religions under different names.	The view that all theists actually worship the same god, whether they know it or not, is especially emphasized in Hinduism and Sikhism . 
noLabel	Strain theory holds that crime is caused by the difficulty those in poverty have in achieving socially valued goals by legitimate means .	As those with, for instance, poor educational attainment have difficulty achieving wealth and status by securing well paid employment, they are more likely to use criminal means to obtain these goals .
noLabel	To some degree these differences remain despite national statistical agencies increasingly adopting the definition of unemployment by the International Labour Organization .	To facilitate international comparisons, some organizations, such as the OECD, Eurostat, and International Labor Comparisons Program, adjust data on unemployment for comparability across countries. 
noLabel	By the 1970s, abandonment of premarital chastity was no longer taboo in the majority of western societies; perhaps even the reverse: that members of both sexes would have experienced a number of sexual partners before marriage was considered normal.	Some cultural groups continued to place a value on the moral purity of an abstainer, but abstinence was caught up in a wider reevaluation of moral values. 
noLabel	As a result of this "lobbying" effort, the Constitution was ratified, although there were narrow margins of victory in four of the state legislatures.	Lobbying today generally requires mounting a coordinated campaign, using targeted blitzes of telephone calls, letters, emails to congressional lawmakers, marches down the Washington Mall, bus caravans, and such, and these are often put together by lobbyists who coordinate a variety of interest group leaders to unite behind a hopefully simple easy-to-grasp and persuasive message . 
noLabel	During the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign, the Gravina Island Bridge (also known as the "Bridge to Nowhere") in Alaska was cited as an example of pork barrel spending.	The bridge, pushed for by Republican Senator Ted Stevens, was projected to cost $398 million and would connect the island's 50 residents and the Ketchikan International Airport to Revillagigedo Island and Ketchikan . 
noLabel	This was the case with BloodRayne which was reviewed terribly by critics and only grossed $3,650,275 USD, a fraction of its $25 million budget.	The contributing factors to the unsuccessful transition from home television to theatre screens are attributed to: a dramatic re-envisioning of the video game that provides a disconnect from the game's plot, the game itself lacking a plot rich enough to provide a decent script (particularly with versus fighting games), a substantially altered plot to make the movie more "mainstream" (Doom), and an emphasis on using celebrity actors over actors that would fit the part. 
noLabel	Another example ActivistCash.org, which "is committed to providing detailed and up-to-date information about the funding source of radical anti-consumer organizations and activists.	" The website is created by the Center for Consumer Freedom, a "coalition of restaurants, food companies, and consumers" many of which have themselves been the target of the organizations which the website targets.
noLabel	A nonpartisan blanket primary (also known as a qualifying primary, top-two primary, Louisiana primary, Cajun primary or jungle primary) is a primary election in which all candidates for elected office run in the same primary regardless of political party.	Under this system, the top two candidates who receive the most votes advance to the next round, as in a runoff election.
noLabel	In 2003, the NAACP filed suit against 45 gun manufacturers for creating what it called a "public nuisance" through the "negligent marketing" of handguns, which included models commonly described as Saturday night specials.	The suit alleged that handgun manufacturers and distributors were guilty of marketing guns in a way that encouraged violence in black and Hispanic neighborhoods.
noLabel	Georgists, half a century before Keynes, also noted the cyclical nature but focused on the role of speculation in land which pushes up economic rent.	Economic activity cannot be sustained in the rent bubble because rent must be paid mostly from wages (yield of labor) as well as from interest (yield of capital).
noLabel	The current state of offshore wind power presents economic challenges significantly greater than onshore systems - prices can be in the range of 2.5-3.0 million Euro/MW.	The turbine represents just one third to one half of costs in offshore projects today, the rest comes from infrastructure, maintenance, and oversight.
noLabel	Other public health interventions include latrinization, the building of sewers, the regular collection of garbage followed by incineration or disposal in a landfill, providing clean water and draining standing water to prevent the breeding of mosquitoes.	This contribution was made by Edwin Chadwick in 1843 who published a report on the sanitation of the working class population in Great Britain at the time.
noLabel	Historians of economies have studied the key transitions to alternative energies and regard the transitions as pivotal in bringing about significant economic change .	Prior to shift to an alternative energy, supplies of the dominant energy type became erratic, accompanied by rapid increases in energy prices.
noLabel	A good approximation of the yield of the Trinity test device was obtained in 1950 from simple dimensional analysis as well as an estimation of the heat capacity for very hot air, by the British physicist G. I. Taylor.	Taylor had initially done this highly classified work in mid-1941, and published a paper which included an analysis of the Trinity data fireball when the Trinity photograph data was declassified in 1950 (after the USSR had exploded its own version of this bomb). 
noLabel	Although peerages and most other honours are granted on the advice of the Prime Minister, some honours are within the personal gift of the Sovereign, and are not granted on ministerial advice.	The monarch alone appoints members of the Order of the Garter, the Order of the Thistle, the Royal Victorian Order and the Order of Merit .
noLabel	In their book By the Color of Our Skin (1999) Leonard Steinhorn and Barbara Diggs-Brown - who also make a similar distinction between desegregation and integration - write ".. television has.. give[n] white Americans the sensation of having meaningful, repeated contact with blacks without actually having it.	We call this phenomenon virtual integration, and it is the primary reason why the integration illusion - the belief that we are moving toward a colorblind nation - has such a powerful influence on race relations in America today."
noLabel	On 13 February 2007, the parties announced "Initial Actions" to implement the 2005 joint statement including shutdown and disablement of North Korean nuclear facilities in exchange for energy assistance.	Reacting to UN sanctions imposed after missile tests in April 2009, North Korea withdrew from the six-party talks, restarted its nuclear facilities and conducted a second nuclear test on 25 May 2009. 
noLabel	Obama writes in his most recent book, The Audacity of Hope: "Affirmative action programs, when properly structured, can open up opportunities otherwise closed to qualified minorities without diminishing opportunities for white students.	" In July, Obama stated, "I am a strong supporter of affirmative action when properly structured so that it is not just a quota, but it is acknowledging and taking into account some of the hardships and difficulties that communities of color may have experienced, continue to experience, and it also speaks to the value of diversity in all walks of American life.
noLabel	The idea that a relatively low ranking officer merely has to satisfy himself or herself as to the persons intentions rather than prove an offence, as is the case in criminal matters, is a long standing cause of legal and legislative tension.	The level of proof is effectively a balance of probabilities rather than that of an overwhelming case being proven against the arriving passenger.
noLabel	In a speech on June 25, 2003, criticizing giving Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Tony Blair a Congressional Gold Medal of Honor, Paul said, "These medals generally have been proposed to recognize a life of service and leadership, and not for political reasons—as evidenced by the overwhelming bipartisan support for awarding President Reagan, a Republican, a gold medal.	These awards normally go to deserving individuals, which is why I have many times offered to contribute $100 of my own money, to be matched by other members, to finance these medals.
noLabel	While Congress has tried to quell criticisms against the leverage of domestic lobbying firms by updating domestic lobbying legislation&ndash:&ndash;such as the revision of the Lobbyist Disclosure Act in 1997)—there was a report that its inaction in rectifying loopholes in foreign lobbying regulation has led to scandals .	There was a report of an upsurge of lobbying by foreign-owned U.S. subsidiaries against Democratic efforts to limit campaign spending in early 2010 .
noLabel	Monteath and McCabe found that 44% of women express negative feelings about both individual body parts and their bodies as a whole .	Psychology Today found that 56% of the women and about 40% of the men who responded to their survey in 1997 were dissatisfied with their overall appearance .
noLabel	Students with lower achievement are more likely to drop out of high school, entering the workforce with minimal training and skills, and subsequently earning substantially less than those with more education.	Today’s economy is also increasingly focused on technology, which means that many employers are having difficulty filling jobs that require strong academic skills.
noLabel	While some consumers have begun to use open source software, with the exception of server operating systems (like Linux and Apache), businesses and governments have been slow to adopt open source software.	Governments spend enormous sums on computer software each year; the UK Home Office, for example, recently published a list of £26m worth of proprietary, closed source software bought over an 18 month period[ii].
noLabel	In a 2004 Le Figaro interview, Ratzinger said that Turkey, which is demographically Muslim but governmentally secular by virtue of its state constitution, should seek its future in an association of Muslim nations rather than the European Union, which Ratzinger has stated has Christian roots.	He said Turkey had always been "in permanent contrast to Europe and that linking it to Europe would be a mistake . 
noLabel	There is a perception among some sections of western society that full-contact sports are barbaric, prone to sporting violence, thuggery, and tend to cause injuries.	In the United States, this has led to the phenomenon of the soccer mom and a general increase in sports with less contact.
noLabel	Movement disorders that may develop after TBI include tremor, ataxia (uncoordinated muscle movements), myoclonus (shock-like contractions of muscles), and loss of movement range and control (in particular with a loss of movement repertoire) .	The risk of post-traumatic seizures increases with severity of trauma (image at right) and is particularly elevated with certain types of brain trauma such as cerebral contusions or hematomas .
noLabel	Many countries prevent this with rules stipulating that a voter must have lived in an electorate for a minimum period (for example, six months) in order to be eligible to vote there.	However, such laws can themselves be used for demographic manipulation as they tend to disenfranchise those with no fixed address, such as the homeless, travellers, Roma, students (studying full time away from home) and some casual workers. 
noLabel	A number of NGOs, development agencies, research institutes and international organizations support developing countries that wish to engage in REDD activities.	The World Banks's Forest Carbon Partnership Facility , the UN-REDD Programme, and Norway's International Climate and Forest Initiative  are such examples. 
noLabel	(While President Harry S. Truman had signed the order to desegregate the military in 1948, little progress in doing so had been made during peacetime, and the large majority of units initially sent to Korea were still segregated .)	Rangel's unit arrived in Pusan, South Korea, in August 1950 and then began moving north as U.N. forces advanced deep into North Korea . 
noLabel	Stern punishments towards independence-seeking demonstrators, rioters, or terrorists have led to mistreatment of the Tibetan and Uyghur minorities in Western China.	The United States in 2007 refused to help repatriate five Chinese Uyghur Guantanamo Bay detainees because of the "past treatment of the Uigur minority" .
noLabel	This is a widely debated topic, with many arguing that 1&nbsp;gram of protein per pound of body weight per day is ideal, some suggesting that less is sufficient, while others recommending 1.5, 2, or more .	It is believed that protein needs to be consumed frequently throughout the day, especially during/after a workout, and before sleep .
noLabel	South Africa has 23 public tertiary educational institutions, either categorised as a traditional university or a comprehensive university (providing theoretical and vocational training).	Prominent public South African universities include the University of Cape Town, University of KwaZulu-Natal, University of Pretoria, University of Stellenbosch, University of Witwatersrand, Rhodes University and the University of South Africa. 
noLabel	A crucial feature of the training package (which accounts for about 60% of publicly-funded training and almost all apprenticeship training) is that the content of the vocational qualifications is theoretically defined by industry and not by government or training providers.	A Training Package is "owned" by one of 11 Industry Skills Councils which are responsible for developing and reviewing the qualifications. 
noLabel	Rather than official multiculturalism, Howard advocated instead the idea of a "shared national identity", albeit one strongly grounded in certain recognisably Anglo-Celtic Australian themes, such as "mateship" and a "fair go".	While Howard changed the name of the Department of Immigration, Multiculturalism and Indigenous Affairs to the Department of Immigration and Citizenship, the policy of multiculturalism has remained intact, with the Howard Government introducing expanded dual-citizenship rights at the turn of the Century. 
noLabel	Some sources claim that public schools' higher per pupil spending is due to having a higher proportion of students with behavioral, physical and emotional problems.	They argue that some, if not all, of the cost difference between public and private schools comes from a process known as cream skimming--selecting only those students that belong to a preferred economic, religious, or ethnic group—rather than from differences in administration . 
noLabel	HAVA requires voters identified as ineligible (such as voters not found on the registered list), but who believe themselves to be eligible, to be able to cast a provisional ballot.	After the election, the appropriate State or local election entity will determine if the voter was eligible, if so counting the vote and notify the voter of the outcome.
noLabel	The largest beneficiaries of agricultural liberalization would be OECD countries themselves: welfare losses of $62.9bn a year are estimated as resulting from the distortionary policies (Binswanger and Ernst 1999:5).	Nor is the traditional objective of OECD agricultural subsidy (supporting small farmers) achieved by this system in a manner that could be characterised as efficient: most of the producer support incomes goes to better-off farmers, with the poorest 40% receiving just 8% of the support spent.
noLabel	Shifting these subsidies to the development of climate-benign energy sources such as wind, solar, biomass, and geothermal power is the key to stabilizing the earth’s climate.	" The International Solar Energy Society advocates "leveling the playing field" by redressing the continuing inequities in public subsidies of energy technologies and R&D, in which the fossil fuel and nuclear power receive the largest share of financial support . 
noLabel	This research could partially explain how other studies have found a small significant difference in comparing educational outcomes between charter and traditional public schools.	It may be that in some cases, charter schools actually improve other public schools by raising educational standards in the area .
noLabel	Beginning with the Everson decision itself, which permitted New Jersey school boards to pay for transportation to parochial schools, the Court has used various tests to determine when the wall of separation has been breached.	The Everson decision laid down the test that establishment existed when aid was given to religion, but that the transportation was justifiable because the benefit to the children was more important.
noLabel	Fearing isolation, people would not feel free to speak up if they feel they hold dissenting views, which means people restrict themselves to having conversation with like-minded individuals, or have no conversation whatsoever .	Witschge further explains, "Whether it is fear of harming others, or fear to get harmed oneself, there are factors that inhibit people from speaking freely, and which thus results in a non-ideal type of discussion, as it hinders diversity and equality of participants and viewpoints to arise fully" . 
noLabel	Paul is a proponent of free trade and rejects protectionism, advocating "conducting open trade, travel, communication, and diplomacy with other nations" .	He opposes many free trade agreements (FTAs), like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), stating that "free-trade agreements are really managed trade" and serve special interests and big business, not citizens . 
noLabel	McCain maintains a relatively moderate stance concerning Pakistan, although he has recognized the South Asian nation as an important part of US Foreign Policy.	In the aftermath of Pakistan's former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's assassination (in December 2007) McCain appeared to rule out the option of US forces entering Pakistan, saying that it was not an appropriate time to "threaten" Pakistan .
noLabel	In India, a new tag deemed universities was created a few years ago, by the cabinet minister Arjun Singh during his tenure as the Minister for Human Resource Development.	Through this provision many universities sprung up in India, which are commercial in nature and have been established just to exploit the demand of higher education .
noLabel	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), established by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) and the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) in 1988, set the scientific precedence for the introduction of low carbon power.	The IPCC has continued to provide scientific, technical and socio-economic advice to the world community, through its periodic assessment reports and special reports . 
noLabel	Then Dawkins visits Pastor Keenan Roberts, who has been running the Hell House Outreach program for 15 years, producing theatre shows aimed at giving children of twelve or older an indelible impression that "sin destroys".	We see rehearsal scenes depicting doctors forcing an abortion on a woman despite her changing her mind, and a lesbian gay marriage ceremony presided over by Satan in which the women swear to “never believe that you are normal” and Satan cites First Corinthians 6 as God saying homosexuality equals sin.
noLabel	Obama was reelected to the Illinois Senate in 1998, defeating Republican Yesse Yehudah in the general election, and was reelected again in 2002 .	In 2000, he lost a Democratic primary run for the U.S. House of Representatives to four-term incumbent Bobby Rush by a margin of two to one . 
noLabel	Further, the answers differed by region: in Quebec, 46% wished for a republic as against 23% for monarchy, while in Ontario the monarchy was favoured well above the national average, and support was even higher in the western provinces.	Older persons (over 50 years) were the strongest advocates for the monarchy than any other age group, although those in their 20s also gave their preference for the Crown.
noLabel	Although people under 30 are less disturbed about steroid use, they are more inclined to think it is widespread, the poll showed.	Fifty-five percent of younger people surveyed said at least half of pro athletes use steroids, compared with 40 percent of older respondents.
noLabel	At the heart of his plan are tax credits – $2,500 for individuals and $5,000 for families who do not subscribe to or do not have access to health care through their employer.	He says the money could be used to purchase insurance and force insurance companies to be competitive with their costs in order to attract consumers .
noLabel	Lemurs and other endemic wildlife have become the target for poachers, a problem that has increased significantly since the large-scale illegal logging has commenced.	Malagasy reptiles have long been a target of animal traders, but as smuggling of these species has intensified, now lemurs are also being collected and illegally exported for the exotic pet trade . 
noLabel	In response, Holt was contacted by families from around the U.S. to tell him that they were educating their children at home.	In 1977, after corresponding with a number of these families, Holt began producing Growing Without Schooling, a newsletter dedicated to home education . 
noLabel	1) For the direct radiation effects the slant range instead of the ground range is shown here, because some effects are not given even at ground zero for some burst heights.	If the effect occurs at ground zero the ground range can simply be derived from slant range and burst altitude (Pythagorean theorem). 
noLabel	There is a common belief that some women are born without a hymen, but some doubt has been cast on this by a recent study .	It is likely that almost all women are born with a hymen, but not necessarily ones that will experience a measurable change during first experience of vaginal intercourse. 
noLabel	According to the JohnMcCain.com: "There is disturbing evidence Russia is already laying the groundwork to apply the same arguments used to justify its intervention in Georgia to other parts of its near abroad – most ominously in Crimea.	This strategically important peninsula is part of Ukraine, but with a large ethnic Russian population and the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Fleet at Sevastopol.
noLabel	|- Egypt condemned the Israeli attacks, but Egypt's foreign minister, Ahmed Aboul Gheit, said that Egypt has long warned Hamas that this would be Israel's response should Qassam fire continue .	As a result of many protests, Egypt opened up the Rafah Border Crossing to allow the wounded into Egyptian hospitals .
noLabel	Referees will stop the bout if a boxer is seriously injured, if one boxer is significantly dominating the other or if the score is severely imbalanced .	Bouts which end this way may be noted as "RSC" (referee stopped contest) with notations for an outclassed opponent (RSCO), outscored opponent (RSCOS), injury (RSCI) or head injury (RSCH).
noLabel	Numerous scholars and non-governmental organizations (including the American Civil Liberties Union, the American Bar Association, the Constitution Project, and the Brennan Center for Justice) issued responses to the Attorney General's letter refuting his criticisms of the bill.	These scholars and organizations noted that current laws surrounding State Secrets allow much room for abuse, and claimed that taking a new approach would not jeopardize security in any manner because each case would be left to the discretion of US courts (who have acted in good faith with regard to national security in the past). 
noLabel	Those who complete lower secondary education may choose between two broad options of vocational upper secondary education at ISCED 3 level.	Both programmes normally take three years to complete and offer a vocational degree as well as the baccalaureate, which is required for entry into tertiary education. 
noLabel	Players' urine and blood are both tested, including for EPO, and at the start of this season the FA introduced a blood profiling programme, similar to the biological passport cited with approval by Fahey.The FA argues it goes further than the Wada code, testing for social and recreational drugs such as cannabis and cocaine "out of competition", rather than solely around match or tournament time.	Last season, the FA's figures show that 1,278 tests were carried out at all levels of professional football, and FA policy is to test the Premier League more than any other.
noLabel	Modern nation-states appeared in the wake of the French Revolution, with the formation of patriotic sentiments for the first time in Spain during the Peninsula War (1808–1813 – known in Spain as the Independence War).	Despite the restoration of the previous order with the 1815 Congress of Vienna, the "nationalities question" became the main problem of Europe during the Industrial Era, leading in particular to the 1848 Revolutions, the Italian unification completed during the 1871 Franco-Prussian War, which itself culminated in the proclamation of the German Empire in the Hall of Mirrors in the Palace of Versailles, thus achieving the German unification. 
noLabel	Lowland equatorial evergreen rain forests are forests which receive high rainfall (more than 2000 mm, or 80 inches, annually) throughout the year.	These forests occur in a belt around the equator, with the largest areas in the Amazon Basin of South America, the Congo Basin of Central Africa, Indonesia, and New Guinea. 
noLabel	The ritual expression, Omo te Oshare ("the boy is now man"), constitutes a rite of passage from one age set to another .	For Nilotic peoples, such as the Kalenjin and Maasai, circumcision is a rite of passage observed collectively by a number of boys every few years, and boys circumcised at the same time are taken to be members of a single age set . 
noLabel	Public education vouchers would permit guardians to select and pay any school, public or private, with public funds currently allocated to local public schools.	The theory is that children's guardians will naturally shop for the best schools, much as is already done at college level. 
noLabel	The panel of experts overwhelmingly opposed implementation of policies of "zero-tolerance" such as was proposed by the US Conference of Catholic Bishops.	One expert called such policies a "case of overkill" since they do not permit flexibility to allow for differences among individual cases . 
noLabel	Successful reserve design often takes the form of a hierarchical system with the most valued habitats requiring high protection being surrounded by buffer habitats that have a lower protection status.	Like HCPs, hierarchical reserve design is a method most often used to protect a single species, and as a result habitat corridors are maintained, edge effects are reduced and a broader suite of species are protected.
noLabel	NWFZs have a similar purpose to, but are distinct from, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty to which all countries except for four nuclear weapons states are party.	Another term, nuclear-free zone, often means an area which has banned both nuclear power and nuclear weapons, and usually does not mean a UN-acknowledged international treaty.
noLabel	A study in 1990 attributed the high preponderance of reported male births in mainland China to four main causes: diseases which affect females more severely than males; the result of widespread underreporting of female births; the illegal practice of sex-selective abortion made possible by the widespread availability of ultrasound; and finally, acts of child abandonment and infanticide .	The number of bachelors in China had already increased between 1990 and 2005, implying that China's lack of brides is not solely linked to the one-child policy, as single-child families were only enforced from 1979 . 
noLabel	The UNCAC deals with forms of corruption that had not been covered by many of the earlier international instruments, such as trading in official influence, general abuses of power, and various acts of corruption in the private sector.	A further significant development was the inclusion of a specific chapter of the Convention dealing with the recovery of assets, a major concern for countries that pursue the assets of former leaders and other officials accused or found to have engaged in corruption.
noLabel	In February 2012, President Thein Sein remarked that the government would "seriously consider" allowing Southeast Asian observers from the Association of South East Asian Nations to observe the election .	The Burmese government confirmed that it had requested for ASEAN election observers to arrive on 28 March, five days before the election .
noLabel	Another report stated that up to 10,000 people, many of them monks who led the protests, had been "rounded up for interrogation in recent days".	United States diplomats who visited 15 monasteries found them empty, while others were being barricaded and guarded by soldiers, the report said .
noLabel	Article 17 provides that no one may use the rights guaranteed by the Convention to seek the abolition or limitation of rights guaranteed in the Convention.	This addresses instances where states seek to restrict a human right in the name of another human right, or where individuals rely on a human right to undermine other human rights (for example where an individual issues a death threat).
noLabel	In the United States, after school programs are increasing in number and popularity due to rising support from states and the federal government.	Interest in utilizing after school programs for delinquent prevention increased dramatically after research found that juvenile arrest rates peak between 2 p.m. and 6 p.m. on school days . 
noLabel	The nuclear reactors to be built at Vogtle are new AP1000 third generation reactors, which are said to have safety improvements over older power reactors .	However, John Ma, a senior structural engineer at the NRC, is concerned that some parts of the AP1000 steel skin are so brittle that the "impact energy" from a plane strike or storm driven projectile could shatter the wall .
noLabel	These gas vans were developed and run under supervision of the Reich Main Security Office, and were used to kill about 500,000 people, primarily Jews, but also Romani and others .	The vans were carefully monitored and after a month of observation a report stated that 'ninety seven thousand have been processed using three vans, without any defects showing up in the machines' . 
noLabel	Small parties significant in large part for their fused ballot lines, include the Independence Party of New York, the Working Families Party, and the Conservative Party of New York State.	The Independence Party originally ran its own candidate for governor until 2002, but since then has instead retained its automatic ballot status by running a gubernatorial candidate who was designated by one of the major parties.
noLabel	All such systems would take the mystery, the guesswork and the deceit out of the tactical dimension of the current system.	By all means vote tactically on Thursday, but do it to avoid the need ever to do so again in the future. 
noLabel	The controversy was used to highlight a supposedly irreconcilable rift between Europeans and Islam – as the journalist Andrew Mueller put it: "I am concerned that the ridiculous, disproportionate reaction to some unfunny sketches in an obscure Scandinavian newspaper may confirm that .. Islam and the West are fundamentally irreconcilable" – and many demonstrations in the Middle-East were encouraged by the regimes there for their own purposes.	Different groups used this tactic for different purposes, some more explicitly than others: for example anti-immigrant groups, nationalists, feminists, classical liberals and national governments . 
noLabel	In her PhD dissertation at Harvard, Emily Oster argued that Sen's hypothesis did not take account of the different rates of prevalence of the Hepatitis B virus between Asia and other parts of the world .	Regions with higher rates of Hep B infection tend to have higher ratios of male to female births for biological reasons which are not yet well understood, but which have been extensively documented. 
noLabel	2004 June 14 – The Supreme Court declined to hear a case challenging "One nation under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance.	"While the court did not address the merits of the case, it is clear that the Pledge of Allegiance and the words 'under God' can continue to be recited by students across America", said Jay Sekulow, chief counsel for the American Center for Law and Justice. 
noLabel	In fact, they argue, the murder rates first start to fall among the oldest criminals and then the next oldest criminals and so on until it last falls among the youngest individuals.	Lott and Whitley argue that if Donohue and Levitt are right that 50 percent of the drop in murder rates during the 1990s is due solely to the legalization of abortion, their results should be seen in these graphs without anything being controlled for, and that in fact the opposite is true . 
noLabel	This allows the authorities to detect use of THG in samples taken before a test had been devised - a strong deterrent against using new designer drugs in the future.	Just as important as the scientific advances... is the commitment of sporting authorities to clamp down on drugs... [The action] on THG will have sent a warning to athletes who thought the authorities were interested only in medals and records."
noLabel	Counter-recruitment (which has long been a strategy of pacifist and other anti-war groups) received a boost in the United States with the somewhat unpopularity of the war in Iraq and brief recruitment difficulties of branches of the U.S. military, particularly the Army; although the Army has met, or exceeded, its recruitment goals year after year during that period.	Beginning in early 2005, the U.S. counter-recruitment movement grew, particularly on high school and college campuses, where it is often led by students who see themselves as targeted for military service in a war they do not support.
noLabel	Another motivation for reform is the desire to address socio-economic problems, which many people see as having significant roots in lack of education.	Starting in the 20th century, people have attempted to argue that small improvements in education can have large returns in such areas as health, wealth and well-being.
noLabel	This was also nearly twice as much revenue as the $3.8 billion generated by the home video game industry that same year; both the arcade and home markets combined add up to a total revenue of $11.8 billion for the video game industry in 1982, equivalent to over $27.3 billion in 2011 .	The arcade video game industry would continue to generate an annual revenue of $5 billion in quarters through to 1985 .
noLabel	One class of nuclear weapon, a fission bomb (not to be confused with the fusion bomb), otherwise known as an atomic bomb or atom bomb, is a fission reactor designed to liberate as much energy as possible as rapidly as possible, before the released energy causes the reactor to explode (and the chain reaction to stop).	Development of nuclear weapons was the motivation behind early research into nuclear fission: the Manhattan Project of the U.S. military during World War II carried out most of the early scientific work on fission chain reactions, culminating in the Trinity test bomb and the Little Boy and Fat Man bombs that were exploded over the cities Hiroshima, and Nagasaki, Japan in August 1945. 
noLabel	A group of experts called the Concussion in Sport Group met there and defined concussion as "a complex pathophysiological process affecting the brain, induced by traumatic biomechanical forces.	" They agreed that concussion typically involves temporary impairment of neurological function that heals by itself within time, and that neuroimaging normally shows no gross structural changes to the brain as the result of the condition . 
noLabel	Because human beings do have this natural capacity—and indeed have it essentially—therefore (on this view) they essentially have a right to life: they could not possibly fail to have a right to life .	Further, since modern embryology shows that the embryo begins to exist at conception and has a natural capacity for complex mental qualities, therefore the right to life begins at conception. 
noLabel	The unpopularity of Henry's counsellors and his belligerent consort, Margaret of Anjou, as well as his own ineffectual leadership, led to the weakening of the House of Lancaster.	The Lancastrians faced a challenge from the House of York, so called because its head, a descendant of Edward III, was Richard, Duke of York.
noLabel	The final part to Non-Verbal communication lies in our gestures, and can be broken down into five subcategories; Emblems, Illustrators, Regulators, Affect Displays, and Adaptors.	Emblems and Illustrators are the easiest to communicate since Emblems refer to sign language (such as the “Thumbs Up” which is one of the most recognized symbols in the world) and Illustrators mimic what we speak (such as gesturing how much time is left by holding up a certain amount of fingers).
noLabel	The cultural exception highlights the specificity of cultural products and services, including special recognition by the European Union in its Declaration on Cultural Diversity.	In this context, the objective is to defend against what is seen as a "commodification" - considered harmful to a "disadvantaged" culture - supporting its development through grants, promotion operations, etc., also known as "cultural protectionism". 
noLabel	A load following power plant is a power plant that adjusts its power output as demand for electricity fluctuates throughout the day .	Load following plants are typically in-between base load and peaking power plants in efficiency, speed of startup and shutdown, construction cost, cost of electricity and capacity factor.
noLabel	A few days later, a new episode surfaced when a member of the Social-liberal youth movement stated that members of the movement had also drawn pictures of Muhammad during a weekend meeting.	Unlike the Danish People's Party Youth's drawings, this episode was not condoned by the youth movement, but was done by individuals .
noLabel	Despite pledges to abstain from protectionism, the US has imposed a new 'security check' on all international airmail entering the US that weighs over 453&nbsp;grams from November 2010.	In addition to the 48 hour delay on all such airmail, compliance fees have been shifted onto the international postal services.
noLabel	The result of the referendum ended with a victory of those against the gun-ban, with over 63% of the voters opposed .	Although the Brazilian Government, the Catholic Church, and the United Nations, argued in favor of a gun ban, it was argued successfully that guns are needed for personal security .
noLabel	 North Ayrshire Council has decided to remove plastic cladding from its buildings following a fatal fire in a tower block .	Poor maintenance of electrical equipment, fire doors and other features has caused widespread fire hazards and residents are asked to pay part of the cost of putting this right even though the problem is due to poor maintenance and errors in design .
noLabel	Rather that proving the existence of God, Kant was attempting to demonstrate that all moral thought requires the assumption that God exists .	Kant argued that humans are obliged to bring about the summum bonum: the two central aims of moral virtue and happiness, where happiness arises out of virtue.
noLabel	Recreation – water may be released from a reservoir to artificially create or supplement white-water conditions for kayaking and other white-water sports .	On salmonid rivers special releases (in Britain called freshets) are made to encourage natural migration behaviours in fish and to provide a variety of fishing conditions for anglers.
noLabel	Moves to lower the voting age to 16 were successful in each of the three British Crown dependencies from 2006 to 2008.	The Isle of Man was the first to amend its law, when in July 2006 it reduced the voting age to 16 for its general elections, with the House of Keys approving the move by 19 votes to 4 . 
noLabel	|- - Bosniak member of the Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina Haris Silajdžić visited the Palestinian Embassy in Sarajevo along with Minister of Health Safet Omerović and Minister of Human Rights and Refugees Safet Halilović, to express their solidarity with the Palestinians in Gaza .	He also said that it was necessary to urgently terminate all military activities due to the growing number of civilian victims .
noLabel	In his eyes, the purpose of education should not revolve around the acquisition of a pre-determined set of skills, but rather the realization of one’s full potential and the ability to use those skills for the greater good.	He notes that "to prepare him for the future life means to give him command of himself; it means so to train him that he will have the full and ready use of all his capacities" (1897, p.&nbsp;6) .
noLabel	" The current leader of the opposition, Tony Abbott supports the status quo and previously served as Executive Director of Australians for Constitutional Monarchy.	He stated "While there may very well be further episodes of republicanism in this country, I am far from certain that, at least in our lifetimes, there’s likely to be any significant change" . 
noLabel	The statute expressly applies to any writing or speech made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, but there is no requirement that the writing or speech be promulgated directly to the official body.	It also applies to speech in a public forum about an issue of public interest and to any other petition or speech conduct about an issue of public interest. 
noLabel	It's more that I almost expect it in pro sports than in the Olympics, said Larry Hollis, 54, a sales executive from Milwaukee.	In a lot of ways, the Olympics are held in a higher standard, or at least I expect it to be.
noLabel	Contrary to these views, the Stoic philosophers argued for equality of the sexes, sexual inequality being in their view contrary to the laws of nature .	In doing so, they followed the Cynics, who argued that men and women should wear the same clothing and receive the same kind of education .
noLabel	The substance is considered illegal in most countries in the world and in those countries that tolerate public consumption, it is usually only pseudo-legal.	Despite this, a considerable percentage of the adult population in many countries have tried it with smaller minorities doing it on a regular basis.
noLabel	The effect of anabolic steroids on muscle mass is caused in at least two ways: first, they increase the production of proteins; second, they reduce recovery time by blocking the effects of stress hormone cortisol on muscle tissue, so that catabolism of muscle is greatly reduced.	It has been hypothesized that this reduction in muscle breakdown may occur through anabolic steroids inhibiting the action of other steroid hormones called glucocorticoids that promote the breakdown of muscles .
noLabel	Rape of a wife by a husband remains legal in many countries, and was long legal in many others, because the law of those countries considers consent to marriage the equivalent of consent to sex.	In the United States, Maouloud Baby v. State of Maryland is a state court case ruling that a person can withdraw sexual consent, and that continuing sexual activity in the absence of consent constitutes rape. 
noLabel	Despite containing enough nicotine and other compounds such as germacrene and anabasine and other piperidine alkaloids (varying between species) to deter most herbivores, a number of such animals have evolved the ability to feed on Nicotiana species without being harmed.	Nonetheless, tobacco is unpalatable to many species, and accordingly some tobacco plants (chiefly tree tobacco, N. glauca) have become established as invasive weeds in some places.
noLabel	Randall Terry collected 18% of the votes, winning twelve counties, in the Oklahoma primary, qualifying him for seven delegates to the 2012 Democratic National Convention.	Jim Rogers collected 13% of the votes, winning three counties, qualifying him for three delegates (one from each of three Congressional Districts where he collected over 15%) .
noLabel	In response to the report, Keating promised a referendum on the establishment of a republic, replacing the Governor-General with a President, and removing references to the Queen.	The President was to be nominated by the Prime Minister and appointed by a two-thirds majority in a joint sitting of the Senate and House of Representatives.
noLabel	No mention is made of the power inequities in the exchange which tend to give the employer power over the employee."	 These power relations often favor men and there " never any mention made of the particular difficulties that confront women in the workplace."
noLabel	The same June 6, 2011 decision of the BCS Presidential Oversight Committee nullified USC's 2005 season participation in the 2006 Rose Bowl.	However, since Texas defeated USC on the field, Texas is still recognized as the BCS National Champion for 2005 .Participating conferences and personal awards listed within table here.
noLabel	During her second term as mayor, Palin proposed and promoted the construction of a municipal sports center to be financed by a 0.5% sales tax increase and $14.7&nbsp; million bond issue .	Voters approved the measure by a 20 vote margin and the Wasilla Multi-Use Sports Complex (later named the Curtis D. Menard Memorial Sports Center) was built on time and under budget.
noLabel	One day, my trainer, Günter Clam, advised me to take pills to improve my performance: I was running 200m in 24 seconds.	My trainer told me the pills were vitamins, but I soon had cramp in my legs, my voice became gruff and sometimes I couldn't talk any more.
noLabel	United States: During the Vietnam War, Americans could be drafted at an age as low as 18, but were not allowed to vote in most states until they were 21 (Alaska 19, Hawaii 20).	A movement spread to lower the voting age, and on 1 July 1971, the Twenty-sixth Amendment extended a guarantee of suffrage to anyone 18 years or older in all states.
noLabel	OFA used the chart to argue, "As a result [of the Recovery Act], job losses are a fraction of what they were a year ago, before the Recovery Act began.	" Others argue that job losses always grow early in a recession and naturally slow down with or without government stimulus spending, and that the . 
noLabel	An experiment that took place in a summer camp, where researches showed food advertisements to children between ages 5-8 for two weeks.	The outcome-what kids chose to eat at a cafeteria were the ads they saw on tv over the two weeks . 
noLabel	On the other hand the sebaceous glands produce FAEEs in the scalp and these migrate together with the sebum along the hair shaft (Auwärter et al., 2001, Pragst et al., 2004).	So these glands lubricate not only the part of the hair that is just growing at 0.3&nbsp;mm per day on the skin surface, but also the more mature hair growth, providing it with a protective layer of fat. 
noLabel	Critics, though, argue that but TCU may have been more deserving to play Alabama in the BCS Championship Game than Texas.	With wins over Clemson, BYU, and Utah, some journalists, including Football Writers Association of America Past-President Dennis Dodd, have cited the 2009 TCU team as an example of a non-AQ team, excluded from consideration for the national championship in spite of their performance against strong competition . 
noLabel	There is much debate over whether or not the social and economic consequences of casino gambling outweigh the initial revenue that may be generated .	In the United States, many states are grappling with high unemployment and budget deficits and are now turning to legalizing casinos, often in places that are not tourist destinations.
noLabel	In addition to the moral and social justice arguments for closing the achievement gap, there are strong economic arguments for doing so.	A 2009 report by the consulting firm McKinsey & Co. asserts that the persistence of the achievement gap in the U.S. has the economic effect of a “permanent national recession.
noLabel	Additionally, Amazonian soils greatly weathered, making them devoid of minerals like phosphorus, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, which come from rock sources.	However, not all tropical rainforests occur on nutrient poor soils, but on nutrient rich floodplains and volcanic soils located in the Andean foothills, and volcanic areas of Southeast Asia, Africa, and Central America . 
noLabel	New "Head Impact Telemetry System" technology is being placed in helmets to study injury mechanisms and potentially help reduce the risk of concussions among American Football players.	Changes to the rules or the practices of enforcing existing rules in sports, such as those against "head-down tackling", or "spearing", which is associated with a high injury rate, may also prevent concussions .
noLabel	Applying the proceeds of a book deal, the family moved in 2005 from a Hyde Park, Chicago condominium to a $1.6&nbsp;million house in neighboring Kenwood, Chicago .	The purchase of an adjacent lot—and sale of part of it to Obama by the wife of developer, campaign donor and friend Tony Rezko—attracted media attention because of Rezko's subsequent indictment and conviction on political corruption charges that were unrelated to Obama . 
noLabel	Bolstered by some nationalist and ethnocentric values and achievements of choice, this concept of racial superiority evolved to distinguish from other cultures, that were considered inferior or impure.	This emphasis on culture corresponds to the modern mainstream definition of racism: "Racism does not originate from the existence of ‘races’.
noLabel	While some psychology historians consider Dewey more of a philosopher than a bona fide psychologist, the authors noted that Dewey was a founding member of the A.P.A., served as the A.P.A.	's eighth President in 1899, and was the author of an 1896 article on the reflex arc which is now considered a basis of American functional psychology . 
noLabel	Automatic closure of public schools which racially integrate — The legislation required that any school which integrated (voluntarily or not) must be immediately and automatically closed .	However, the governor was given the discretion to take over integrated school(s) and reopen the school(s) on a segregated basis rather than close the entire district .
noLabel	The conception of ordination brought with it largely unspoken parallels with the Anglican and Catholic priesthood, but the overriding metaphor in James's handbook was that of a father's relation to his children.	"Just as no misconduct on the part of a father can free his children from obedience to the fifth commandment, so no misgovernment on the part of a king can release his subjects from their allegiance.
noLabel	" The only statement which may pertain to the spark plug was declassified in 1991: "Fact that fissile and/or fissionable materials are present in some secondaries, material unidentified, location unspecified, use unspecified, and weapons undesignated."	In 1998 the DOE declassified the statement that "The fact that materials may be present in channels and the term 'channel filler,' with no elaboration", which may refer to the polystyrene foam (or an analogous substance) . 
noLabel	A 2005 Home Office study into the numbers of illegal migrants in the UK gave an estimate of 430,000 while conceding that it could be as high as 570,000 or as low as 310,000 .	Many MPs had asked for estimates of illegal entrants in the UK and had been given a consistently vague response .
noLabel	Israel (1960's) and North Korea (2000's) are also thought to have developed stocks of nuclear weapons, and have made the political decision to retain them to the present time.	South Africa also manufactured several complete nuclear weapons in the 1980's, but subsequently became the first country to voluntarily destroy their domestically-made weapons stocks and abandon further production (1990's) . 
noLabel	In Scotland, school summer holidays start in late June and last for about six or seven weeks, with most schools returning around August 20.	In addition to summer holidays, Scottish schools have one week in October, two weeks at Christmas and two weeks at Easter.
noLabel	Born in West Virginia and raised in Bowling Green, Ohio, Easterly received his BA from Bowling Green State University in 1979 and his Ph.D. in Economics from MIT in 1985.	He spent sixteen years as a Research Economist at the World Bank and was adjunct professor at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies. 
noLabel	On 6 August 2005, Iran rejected a 34 page European Union proposal intended to help Iran build "a safe, economically viable and proliferation-proof civil nuclear power generation and research program."	The Europeans, with US agreement, intended to entice Iran into a binding commitment not to develop uranium enrichment capability by offering to provide fuel and other long-term support that would facilitate electricity generation with nuclear energy.
noLabel	An erection is the stiffening and rising of the penis, which occurs during sexual arousal, though it can also happen in non-sexual situations.	The primary physiological mechanism that brings about erection is the autonomic dilation of arteries supplying blood to the penis, which allows more blood to fill the three spongy erectile tissue chambers in the penis, causing it to lengthen and stiffen.
noLabel	On April 2012, the Hamas government in Gaza approved its budget for 2012, which was up 25% year-on-year over 2011 budget, indicating that donors, including Iran, benefactors in the Islamic world and Palestinian expatriates, are still heavily funding the movement .	Chief of Gaza's parliament's budget committee Jamal Nassar said the 2012 budget is $769 million, compared to $630 million in 2011 .
noLabel	This offer was discussed and agreed at a formal school meeting which had been hastily convened in the courtroom from a quorum of pupils and teachers who were present in court.	The settlement was much broader than could have been decided on the judge's authority alone as it made provision for Summerhill to be inspected using unique criteria in future which would take account of its special educational philosophy . 
noLabel	During World War I, and to a greater extent during World War II, war correspondents accompanied military forces, and their reports were subject to advance censorship to preserve military secrets.	The extent of such censorship was not generally challenged, and no major court case arose from this issue, and even the Supreme Court found it constitutional on the grounds that it "protected free speech from tyranny" .
noLabel	On 4 June 1992 Australians for Constitutional Monarchy held their first public meeting at Sydney Town Hall attended by about 450 people.	The foundation council included the former Chief Justice of the High Court, Sir Harry Gibbs, the Chancellor of Sydney University, Dame Leonie Kramer, former Sydney Lord Mayor, Mr Doug Sutherland, the President of the NSW Court of Appeal, Justice Michael Kirby, former Liberal Party Federal President, Sir John Atwill and Mr Barry O'Keefe QC .
noLabel	Certification, as provided by global certification systems such as Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification and Forest Stewardship Council, contributes to tackling deforestation by creating market demand for timber from sustainably managed forests.	According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), "A major condition for the adoption of sustainable forest management is a demand for products that are produced sustainably and consumer willingness to pay for the higher costs entailed.
noLabel	The data suggesting a negative impact on pubs is partly explained by the reclassified of some as restaurants when serving food becomes the prime source of income.	As a result, while the number of premises described as pubs went down following the implementation of the legislation, the total number of premises licensed to sell alcohol went up .
noLabel	Catholics answer that when they have prayed to a saint they have asked the saint to pray to God for them, not to have the saint do something for them personally.	For Catholics, belief in the "Communion of Saints" means that death does not separate believers and requesting prayers of a saint is the same as asking any friend.
noLabel	Meanwhile, the Imperial Japanese Navy's Technology Research Institute had been pursuing its own separate investigations, and had engaged professors from the Imperial University, Tokyo, for advice on nuclear weapons.	This resulted in the formation of the Committee on Research in the Application of Nuclear Physics, chaired by Nishina, that met ten times between July 1942 and March 1943.
noLabel	An article in Virginia's official university law review called for a "prohibitive tax..on the privilege" of selling handguns as a way of disarming "the son of Ham," whose "cowardly practice of 'toting' guns has been one of the most fruitful sources of crime.. Let a negro board a railroad train with a quart of mean whiskey and a pistol in his grip and the chances are that there will be a murder, or at least a row, before he alights.	" Thus, many Southern States imposed high taxes or banned inexpensive guns in order to price destitute individuals out of the gun market. 
noLabel	A few months later they pushed New York State, which would include the large Chassidic enclaves of Kiras Joel, New Square, and Monsey to declare the disease reportable, and found no cases.	In order to broaden the scope of surveillance, Asst NYC DoH Commissionor Dr. Julia Schillinger added another ICD classification to her investigation and found no cases.
noLabel	This changed though, following the death of lightweight Duk Koo Kim in 1982 after his fourteen-round fight with Ray Mancini, which was so shocking that two people committed suicide as a result .	Almost immediately, the World Boxing Council (WBC) issued a statement saying that WBC world title bouts would be set for 12 rounds . 
noLabel	Other Christian denominations, notably Protestants have rejected the Catholic doctrine that Christ established "only one Church" and that that one Church is the Catholic Church.	Protestants also rejected the remark by Pope Benedict XVI that only the Catholic Church could be properly be called "the Church" .
noLabel	Securitization of mortgages in America started in 1983 at Salomon Brothers and was done in such a fashion that the people arranging the mortgage passed all the risk that the mortgage would fail to the next group down the line.	With the mortgage securitization system in the United States, many different debts of many different borrowers are piled together into a large pool of debt, and then shares in the pool are sold to lots of creditors. 
noLabel	As the Internet grew, open source-style software progressed to more advanced presentation and sharing forms through the World Wide Web (of which gopher was a precursor).	There are now many Web sites, organizations and businesses that promote the open-source sharing of everything from computer code to mechanics of improving a product, technique, or medical advancement.
noLabel	Not the sale of tickets but transmission rights, sponsoring and merchandising in the meantime make up the largest part of sports association’s and sports club’s revenues with the IOC (International Olympic Committee) taking the lead.	The influence of the media brought many changes in sports including the admittance of new ‘trend sports’ into the Olympic Games, the alteration of competition distances, changes of rules, animation of spectators, changes of sports facilities, the cult of sports heroes who quickly establish themselves in the advertising and entertaining business because of their media value and last but not least, the naming and renaming of sport stadiums after big companies. 
noLabel	Dementia pugilistica (DP) neurodegenerative disease or dementia that may affect amateur or professional boxers as well as athletes in other sports who suffer concussions.	A variant of chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) it is also called chronic boxer’s encephalopathy, traumatic boxer’s encephalopathy, boxer's dementia, chronic traumatic brain injury associated with boxing (CTBI-B), and punch-drunk syndrome ('punchy').
noLabel	The debate that ensued remained largely academic until the late 20th century, when the relationship between race and crime became a recognized field of specialized study in criminology.	As Helen T. Greene and Shaun L. Gabbidon, professor of criminal justice at Pennsylvania State University, note in their recently published Encyclopedia of Race and Crime (2009), many criminology and criminal justice programs now either require or offer elective courses on the topic of the relationship between race and crime . 
noLabel	Some believe that similar or better pest-resistance traits can be acquired through traditional breeding practices, and resistance to various pests can be gained through hybridization or cross-pollination with wild species.	In some cases, wild species are the primary source of resistance traits; some tomato cultivars that have gained resistance to at least 19 diseases did so through crossing with wild populations of tomatoes .
noLabel	With the advent of miniaturization, nuclear bombs can be delivered by both strategic bombers and tactical fighter-bombers, allowing an air force to use its current fleet with little or no modification.	This method may still be considered the primary means of nuclear weapons delivery; the majority of U.S. nuclear warheads, for example, are free-fall gravity bombs, namely the B61 .
noLabel	Cultural or social norms often indicate that while women must remain faithful men are able and even expected to philander irrespective of their marital status.	Along with the occurrence of multiple sexual partners, unemployment and population displacements that result from drought and conflict contribute to the spread of HIV/AIDS. 
noLabel	Abram Fedorovich Ioffe recommended Igor Kurchatov to Molotov, and Molotov advised Stalin to appoint Kurchatov as the formal scientific head of the nascent Soviet nuclear weapons programme.	Other important figures included Yuli Khariton, Yakov Zeldovich, Georgii Flyorov, Abram Fedorovich Ioffe, and the future dissident and lead theoretical designer of the hydrogen bomb, Andrei Sakharov. 
noLabel	At the time it was first proposed, conflict theory was considered outside the mainstream of more established criminological theories, such as strain theory, social disorganization theory and differential association theory .	Barbara D. Warner, associate professor of criminal justice and police studies at Eastern Kentucky University, notes that conflict theory has been the subject of increasing criticism in recent years.
noLabel	Christian developers have made various attempts at the genre including Left Behind: Eternal Forces in which the player attempts to convert as many civilians in an apocalyptic future as possible by raising their spirit level and shielding them from the corrupting influences of rock-and-roll music and general secularism.	The game has been criticized by such anti-violent video game personalities as former attorney Jack Thompson for strategy involving the slaying of infidels and non-believers, and for the ability of players engaged in multi-play modes to play as the Antichrist on the side of the Forces of Satan. 
noLabel	As a result of these findings, the WHO and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) stated that male circumcision is an efficacious intervention for HIV prevention but should be carried out by well trained medical professionals and under conditions of informed consent .	Both the WHO and CDC indicate that circumcision may not reduce HIV transmission from men to women, and that data are lacking for the transmission rate of men who engage in anal sex with a female partner .
noLabel	In October 2009, Dershowitz stated that the ratio for Israel's campaign of targeted killings of terrorists stood at 1 civilian for every 28 terrorists.	He argued that "this is the best ratio of any country in the world that is fighting asymmetrical warfare against terrorists who hide behind civilians.
noLabel	The Common Cause_Demos paper last week that spurred some the current coverage of voter ID makes suggestions for leveling the playing field, such as making challenges to voter registration as individuated as possible (requiring a signed affidavit for each challenge, for instance).	In the end, though, once challenged, the only way for a would-be voter to push back is by a literal act of personal integrity: showing up at the county registrar's office or hearing, usually.
noLabel	Cardinal Darío Castrillón Hoyos, the president of the Pontifical Commission established for the purpose of facilitating full ecclesial communion of those associated with that Society, stated that the decree "opened the door for their return".	Bishop Bernard Fellay, superior general of the SSPX, expressed "deep gratitude to the Sovereign Pontiff for this great spiritual benefit" .
noLabel	The Secretary General of the Organization of American States said "Nothing can justify excessive use of military force to attack, with serious loss of human lives, to a disarmed civil convoy".	Also he warned of a violence increase risk in the Middle East, Mr. José Miguel Insulza asked "to avoid actions which can means to increase the situation that, once again, threatens seriously the peace process in the Middle East" .
noLabel	As of 2011, the average age for a video game player is 37, a number slowly increasing as people who were children playing the first arcade, console and home computer games continue playing now on current systems .	The gender distribution of gamers is reaching equilibrium, according to a 2011 study showing that 58% of gamers are male and 42% female .
noLabel	University of Phoenix has an open enrollment admission policy, requiring a high-school diploma, GED, or its equivalent as its criteria for admissions .	The school also provides associate or bachelor's degree applicants opportunity for advanced placement through its prior learning assessment, which, aside from previous coursework, college credit can come from experiential learning essays, corporate training, and certificates or licenses .
noLabel	Earlier in the 1970s, Conservative prime minister Edward Heath (elected in 1970) had attempted to reduce trade union powers due to the rising level of strikes across the country.	However, he backed down with his stance against the unions following a backlash by the militant miners' union, which saw many of his own MPs turn against him.
noLabel	On September 3, 2008, Palin delivered a 40-minute acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention that was well-received and watched by more than 40 million people .	A Rasmussen poll taken immediately after the Convention found that 51% of Americans believed that the media was "trying to hurt" Palin with negative coverage, and 40% believed Palin to be ready for the Presidency . 
noLabel	In the United States, tenement is a label usually applied to the less expensive, more basic rental apartment buildings in older sections of large cities.	Many of these apartment buildings are "walk-ups" without an elevator, and some have shared bathing facilities, though this is becoming less common. 
noLabel	This product has a small amount of tobacco in a pouch with a thin outer membrane and resembles a tiny tea bag.	Skoal Bandits was invented by UST's marketing division and the manufacturing process was conceived by Gene Paules of UST and the process was automated by David Westerman of The Automation Center, Inc., Nashville, TN. 
noLabel	It was decided that the Secretary of State should see that private and public sectors of the media were accepting the government decisions .	Program Secretary to the Prime Minister, J. Davey, thought the government should concentrate on four areas—one being for the Strategic Operations Centre to continue monitoring the media from week to week .
noLabel	I therefore decided to inject him with a milligram of sulphate of strychnine and to make him drink a large glass brimming with brandy.	He set off again as best he could [but] he needed another injection four miles from the end to give him a semblance of speed and to get him to the finish . 
noLabel	They guarantee a number of personal freedoms, limit the government's power in judicial and other proceedings, and reserve some powers to the states and the public.	While originally the amendments applied only to the federal government, most of their provisions have since been held to apply to the states by way of the Fourteenth Amendment. 
noLabel	" A separate Wall Street Journal article emphasized Israel's need to keep advanced weaponry from getting to Hamas: "Those who denounce Israel today ought to at least propose how they mean to keep arms from going to Hamas—or else consider the role their denunciations will play in encouraging another war.	" Another article stated "the more facts that come to light about the flotilla, its passengers and their sponsors, the more it seems clear that Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Ergodan's government, far more so than Israel's, must be held to account for Monday's violent episode."
noLabel	Because it is vulnerable to certain forms of strategic nomination IRV is said by electoral scientists to fail the 'independence of irrelevant alternatives' criterion.	This criterion is so strict that it is failed by almost all voting systems, even those that are less susceptible to strategic nomination than runoff voting.
noLabel	Furthermore, if there were a widespread switching to natural gas from coal some countries would become increasingly dependent on international supplies.	Also, “large-scale fuel switching would require substantial investments in pipeline storage and storage capacity and new terminals to process imported natural gas” .
noLabel	The following day, Rangel was found guilty on 11 of the 12 charges against him by the adjudicatory subcommittee of the House Ethics Committee (2 of the original 13 charges having been combined) .	Two of the charges were focused on his actions with regards to soliciting funds and donations for the Rangel Center from those with business before the Ways and Means Committee; four were for improper use of Congressional letterhead and other House resources in those solicitations; one was for submitting incomplete and inaccurate financial disclosure statements; one was for using one of his Harlem apartments as an office when he had Congressional dealings with the landlord; one was for failing to pay taxes on his Dominican villa; and two reiterated these charges in describing general violations of House rules . 
noLabel	Ecclesiastical courts would grant a "divorce a vinculo matrimonii", or "divorce from all the bonds of marriage",&ndash;essentially ruling that the marriage had never taken place&ndash;when presented evidence that the marriage had been invalid from its start .	Although the Church abandoned tradition to allow women the same rights as men to dissolve a marriage, in practice, at least throughout the Middle Ages, when an accusation of infidelity was made, men were granted dissolutions more frequently than women . 
noLabel	From a program that had just barely passed Congressional muster during the fearful prelude to World War II, a more robust draft continued as fears now focused on the Soviet threat.	Nevertheless, some dissenting voices in Congress continued to appeal to the history of voluntary American military service as preferable for a democracy . 
noLabel	This was the first attack on a nuclear reactor and only the third on a nuclear facility in the history of the world.	It was also the first instance of a preventive attack on a nuclear reactor which aimed to forestall the development of a nuclear weapon, though it did not achieve its objective as France later repaired the reactor . 
noLabel	A BBC report said that sources from a government-sponsored militia stated they would soon be moved away from Yangon, and that the monks have been disrobed and shackled.	The Democratic Voice of Burma, the banned opposition broadcaster, published a photograph which they said showed the body of a monk floating near the mouth of the Yangon river . 
noLabel	The symbol adopted by CND was designed in 1958 by Gerald Holtom and in the following decade became an international peace symbol.	It is based on the semaphore symbols for "N" (two flags held 45 degrees down on both sides, forming the triangle at the bottom) and "D" (two flags, one above the head and one at the feet, forming the vertical line) (for Nuclear Disarmament) within a circle.
noLabel	Typically, primary education is provided in schools, where the child will stay in steadily advancing classes until they complete it and move on to high school/secondary school.	Children are usually placed in classes with one teacher who will be primarily responsible for their education and welfare for that year.
noLabel	Two suitcase bombs were discovered in trains near the German cities of Dortmund and Koblenz, undetonated due to an assembly error.	Video footage from Cologne train station, where the bombs were put on the trains, led to the arrest of two Lebanese students in Germany, Youssef el-Hajdib and Jihad Hamad, and subsequently of three suspected co-conspirators in Lebanon .
noLabel	Nearly all the gasoline sold in the United States today is mixed with 10 percent ethanol, a mix known as E10, and motor vehicle manufacturers already produce vehicles designed to run on much higher ethanol blends.	Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and GM are among the automobile companies that sell flexible-fuel cars, trucks, and minivans that can use gasoline and ethanol blends ranging from pure gasoline up to 85% ethanol (E85).
noLabel	Once medically stable, patients may be transferred to a subacute rehabilitation unit of the medical center or to an independent rehabilitation hospital .	Rehabilitation aims to improve independent function at home and in society and to help adapt to disabilities  and has demonstrated its general effectiveness, when conducted by a team of health professionals who specialise in head trauma .
noLabel	 The Relief and Works Agency also said "we are shocked by reports of killings and injuries of people on board boats carrying supplies for Gaza, apparently in international waters.	Such tragedies are entirely avoidable if Israel heeds the repeated calls of the international community to end its counterproductive and unacceptable blockade of Gaza .
noLabel	In national group settings, these ancestral environments can result in psychological triggers in the minds of individuals within a group, such as responding positively to patriotic cues .	There are immediate environments that are those situations that confront an individual or group at a given point and activate certain mental responses .
noLabel	It had been 27 years since the last such measure and Rangel was only the 23rd House member to be censured .	Rangel asked to speak and said, "I know in my heart I am not going to be judged by this Congress.
noLabel	In 1983, with the support of his friend and admirer Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, he was made a life peer as Baron Bauer of Market Ward in the City of Cambridge.	Lord Bauer was also a fellow of the British Academy and a member of the Mont Pelerin Society, which was founded by his friend Friedrich Hayek. 
noLabel	Early communist movements were at odds with the traditional monarchies that ruled over much of the European continent at the time.	Many European monarchies outlawed the public expression of communist views, and the Communist Manifesto began "A spectre is haunting Europe," suggesting that monarchs feared for their thrones.
noLabel	Of particular importance is Article 56 of the charter:"All Members pledge themselves to take joint and separate action in co-operation with the Organization for the achievement of the purposes set forth in Article 55."	This is a binding treaty provision applicable to both the Organisation and its members and has been taken to constitute a legal obligation for the members of the United Nations .
noLabel	Many governments are trying to deter people from smoking with anti-smoking campaigns in mass media stressing the harmful long-term effects of smoking.	Passive smoking, or secondhand smoking, which affects people in the immediate vicinity of smokers, is a major reason for the enforcement of smoking bans.
noLabel	From 1994 to 2002, Obama served on the boards of directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago, which in 1985 had been the first foundation to fund the Developing Communities Project; and of the Joyce Foundation .	He served on the board of directors of the Chicago Annenberg Challenge from 1995 to 2002, as founding president and chairman of the board of directors from 1995 to 1999 .
noLabel	His theories regarding the "invisible hand" are commonly misinterpreted to mean individual pursuit of self-interest unintentionally producing collective good for society .	It was necessary for Smith to be so forceful in his argument in favor of free markets because he had to overcome the popular mercantilist sentiment of the time period . 
noLabel	In fact, 88% of parents of junior high school students and 80% of parents of high school students believe that sex education in school makes it easier for them to talk to their adolescents about sex .	Also, 92% of adolescents report that they want both to talk to their parents about sex and to have comprehensive in-school sex education. 
noLabel	The legal rights agency Adalah produced a report that was highly critical of the Israeli police and court system's response to the opposition to Operation Cast lead within Israel.	The report said that the Israeli authorities had shown a lack of toleration for protests, and had damaged the freedom of expression of those opposing the attacks on Gaza.
noLabel	This difficulty in "justifying" both non-automatic qualifying teams going to BCS Bowls led a number of BCS critics to point to this situation as being reflective of the arrogance and assumption of higher quality of the BCS Conferences that is not borne out by any statistics or their win-loss records, but rather is based on past records and old, no longer relevant or true traditions and reputations.	Utah qualified automatically as the highest ranked (in the top 12) non-BCS conference champion and defeated Alabama in the Sugar Bowl.
noLabel	In 2001, two thirds of young people aged under 22 began an apprenticeship, and 78% of them completed it, meaning that approximately 51% of all young people under 22 have completed an apprenticeship.	One in three companies offered apprenticeships in 2003, in 2004 the government signed a pledge with industrial unions that all companies except very small ones must take on apprentices. 
noLabel	The most widely used definition of "weapons of mass destruction" is that of nuclear, biological or chemical weapons (NBC) although there is no treaty or customary international law that contains an authoritative definition.	Instead, international law has been used with respect to the specific categories of weapons within WMD, and not to WMD as a whole. 
noLabel	Similarly each side's use of the term "rights" ("reproductive rights", "right to life of every unborn child") implies a validity in their stance, given that the presumption in language is that rights are inherently a good thing and so implies an invalidity in the viewpoint of their opponents.	(In liberal democracies, a right is seen as something the state and civil society must defend, whether human rights, victims' rights, children's rights, etc.
noLabel	The criticisms of the specific Open Source Initiative (OSI) principles are dealt with above as part of the definition and differentiation from other terms.	The open content movement does not recognize nor endorse the OSI principles and embraces instead mutual Share-Alike agreements that require commercial use or the preparation of derivative works. 
noLabel	By 1981, the arcade video game industry was generating an annual revenue of $5 billion in North America, equivalent to $12.3 billion in 2011 .	In 1982, the arcade video game industry reached its peak, generating $8 billion in quarters, equivalent to over $18.5 billion in 2011, surpassing the annual gross revenue of both pop music ($4 billion) and Hollywood films ($3 billion) combined at that time .
noLabel	Such studies thus count the crimes committed by visitors, but do not count visitors in the population measure, and this overstates the crime rates in casino areas.	Part of the reason this methodology is used, despite it leading to an overstatement of crime rates is that reliable data on tourist count are often not available .
noLabel	Monarchists argue that an impartial, symbolic head of state is a step removed from political, commercial, and factional interests, allowing them to be a non-partisan figure who can act as an effective intermediary between various levels of government and political parties, an especially indispensable feature in a federal system.	The fact that the monarch nominally holds all executive authority is seen as advantageous by monarchists, who state that the Crown is a guarantor against the misuse of constitutional power by politicians for personal gain.
noLabel	Immigration to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland since 1922 has been substantial, in particular from Ireland and the former colonies and other territories of the British Empire - such as India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, the Caribbean, South Africa, Kenya and Hong Kong - under British nationality law.	Others have come as asylum seekers, seeking protection as refugees under the United Nations 1951 Refugee Convention, or from European Union (EU) member states, exercising one of the EU's Four Freedoms. 
noLabel	Recent clinical and laboratory research by neurosurgeon Julian Bailes, M.D., and his colleagues from West Virginia University, has resulted in papers showing that dietary supplementation with omega-3 DHA offers protection against the biochemical brain damage that occurs after a traumatic injury .	Rats given DHA prior to induced brain injuries suffered smaller increases in two key markers for brain damage (APP and caspase-3), as compared with rats given no DHA .
noLabel	As with role-playing games, strategy games have traditionally focused on the development and expansion of a group as they defend themselves from the attacks of enemies.	Strategy games tend not to be explicitly described as violent, however they nearly universally contain violent content in the form of battles, wars, and other skirmishes.
noLabel	Changes in 2001 to the Australian Customs Act means that it is also illegal to import the book into Australia .	The recent plans of the Australian government to block the book's website has seen the euthanasia activist Nitschke embark on a national tour of "Hacking Masterclasses" aimed at teaching the book's readers how to circumvent the planned government internet filter . 
noLabel	The National Rifle Association maintains ties with other organizations such as the Boy Scouts of America, and 4-H. NRA relations with these groups include monetary donations, equipment donations to supply firearms ranges, and provision of instructors to assist in their programs.	Notably, the Boy Scouts of America has strict guidelines on who is allowed to operate their ranges, the recognized personnel groups including NRA Certified Instructors along with military and law enforcement. 
noLabel	Many people left the UK voluntarily, (not necessarily in the same identities in which they were known to IND), many case records were duplicated and there were substantial numbers of cases of people making asylum claims in multiple identities .	Over and above this there was no way of knowing how many new illegal entrants had successfully entered and had yet to be detected.
noLabel	The five most popular trades are: Retail Salesperson (5,000 people complete this apprenticeship per year), Clerk (3,500 / year), Car Mechanic (2,000 / year), Hairdresser (1,700 / year), Cook (1,600 / year) .	There are many smaller trades with small numbers of apprentices, like "EDV-Systemtechniker" (Sysadmin) which is completed by fewer than 100 people a year . 
noLabel	The two groups succeeded in obtaining a preliminary injunction in December 2005 to block enforcement of the law during the case; U.S. District Judge Ronald M. Whyte cited in his preliminary decision: "The plaintiffs have shown at least that serious questions are raised concerning the States' ability to restrict minors' First Amendment rights in connection with exposure to violent video games, including the question of whether there is a causal connection between access to such games and psychological or other harm to children.	" In August 2007, Whyte ultimately ruled for the plaintiffs, holding that the law violated the First Amendment, and that there was an insufficient showing of proof that either video games differed from other media or that there was established causality between violent video games and violent behavior . 
noLabel	A commonly used protocol for determining the androgenic:anabolic ratio, dating back to the 1950s, uses the relative weights of ventral prostate (VP) and levator ani muscle (LA) of male rats.	The VP weight is an indicator of the androgenic effect, while the LA weight is an indicator of the anabolic effect.
noLabel	This institute was a pseudo-historical think-tank based in Berlin, secretly funded by the German government and headed by a former völkisch activist named Major Alfred von Wegerer, whose sole purpose was to prove Germany was the victim of Allied aggression in 1914 .	Following World War II, Barnes became convinced that allegations made against Germany and Japan, including the Holocaust, were wartime propaganda used to justify U.S. involvement in World War II. 
noLabel	John Vidal has said "The point is that right across the world it is not just the nuclear technology which is so offensive to people, but the arrogance, callousness and ruthless steamrollering of any opposition that invariably accompanies nuclear projects.	What the pro-nuclear folk here do not seem to understand is that the abuse of political power is as dangerous as the power source itself" . 
noLabel	This may mean for example that a copy of a book that does not infringe copyright in the country where it was printed does infringe copyright in a country into which it is imported for retailing.	The first-sale doctrine is known as exhaustion of rights in other countries and is a principle which also applies, though somewhat differently, to patent and trademark rights.
noLabel	Sometimes graphic images are censored, by blurring or blocking a portion of the image, cutting the violent portions out of an image sequence or by removing certain portions of film footage from viewing.	However, more and more throughout the years, it has been a ploy for media companies to attract more and more viewers by trivializing various events like the ones mentioned above for shock appeal.
noLabel	According to Satoshi TODOME's A History of Eroge, Kanon is still the standard for modern eroge and is referred to as a "baptism" for young otakus in Japan.	Although many eroge still market themselves primarily on sex, eroge that focus on story are now a major established part of Japanese otaku culture.
noLabel	Though seen throughout the French Revolution, perhaps the most well known French reincarnation of the fasces is the Fasces surmounted by a Phrygian cap.	This image has no display of an axe or a strong central state; rather, it symbolizes the power of the liberated people by placing the Liberty Cap on top of the classical symbol of power .
noLabel	Colley and Cannadine—married to each other and employed by Princeton University—will teach at NCH for one hour each in the first academic year .	Singer, also employed by Princeton, agreed to give one lecture in the first year, but told The Guardian he might do more .
noLabel	All of the recent gains have been made, deliberately, at the low end of the socioeconomic scale and among the lowest achievers.	The country has been outrun, the study says, by other nations because the US has not done enough to encourage the highest achievers . 
noLabel	Various studies have shown that, in recent decades, there has not been any noticeable disparity in black vs white crime statistics in black-controlled vs white-controlled cities, say Atlanta vs San Diego.	In the largest counties, the rates of conviction for accused blacks was slightly less than the conviction rates for whites, for example . 
noLabel	Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was withdrawn from sale in July 2005 following the revelation that sex scenes were included in the content files on the game's disc; one could not ordinarily access these scenes, but a third party modification, known as the Hot Coffee mod, allowed the player to access these scenes within the game itself, and the inclusion of the scenes on the game disc took the game outside the MA15+ category.	The MA15+ rating was re-instated after a modified version was released worldwide by Rockstar Games, removing the content files for the sex scenes. 
noLabel	The fight was scheduled for February 25, 1964 in Miami, Florida, but was nearly canceled when the promoter, Bill Faversham, heard that Clay had been seen around Miami and in other cities with the controversial Malcolm X, a member of The Nation of Islam.	Because of this, news of this association was perceived as a potential gate-killer to a bout which, given Liston's overwhelming status as the favorite to win (7–1 odds), had Clay's colorful persona and nonstop braggadocio as its sole appeal. 
noLabel	The instructions included orders to stay within a certain distance of bomb shelters based on proximity to the source of the rockets .	Hamas' Grad rockets' increased range of 40&nbsp;km put more than 700,000 Israelis within strike range, prompting 40% of the residents of the southern city of Ashkelon to flee the city, despite official calls to stay .
noLabel	In February 2007, the U.S. started formal negotiations with Poland and Czech Republic concerning construction of missile shield installations in those countries for a Ground-Based Midcourse Defense system (in April 2007, 57% of Poles opposed the plan) .	According to press reports the government of the Czech Republic agreed (while 67% Czechs disagree) to host a missile defense radar on its territory while a base of missile interceptors is supposed to be built in Poland . 
noLabel	The argument from morality is best associated with Immanuel Kant who argued from practical reason that God must exist to provide an eternal life in which moral virtue can be rewarded with happiness.	Other forms of the argument propose that a naturalistic account of the existence of morality would render it illusory, arguing that God must exist to give force to moral obligations.
noLabel	Pakistan's embassy in the U.S. told the U.S. Department of State that the images on Facebook "immensely hurt and discomforted the people and the government of Pakistan"; the embassy requested the U.S. government "take effective measures to prevent, stop or block this blasphemous contest immediately" .	On May 25, 2010, The Nation reported that a poll of citizens of Pakistan conducted by ProPakistani.pk revealed that 70 percent of those polled wanted Facebook to be permanently banned in the country . 
noLabel	They could also be made much smaller than most LED handhelds, even small enough to wear on one’s wrist like a watch.	Tiger Electronics borrowed this concept of videogaming with cheap, affordable handhelds and still produces games in this model to the present day.
noLabel	The relationship between the Commonwealth realms is such that any change to the laws governing succession to the shared throne requires the unanimous consent of all the realms.	Succession is governed by statutes such as the Bill of Rights 1689, the Act of Settlement 1701 and the Acts of Union 1707.
noLabel	Women dominate in caring professions: teaching, nursing, childcare, and also for the care of individuals with disabilities and the weak elderly.	This domination restricts many other opportunities, which has effectively lowered the cost of care work in the market because women, without other options, provided these services without remuneration . 
noLabel	The largest anti-nuclear protest was held on June 12, 1982, when one million people demonstrated in New York City against nuclear weapons .	In October 1983, nearly 3 million people across western Europe protested nuclear missile deployments and demanded an end to the arms race . 
noLabel	In a joint-statement, Syrian President Bashar al—Assad and Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri "condemn[ed] the heinous crime committed by Israel through the brutal attacks on unarmed civilians on board the Freedom Flotilla."	While warning that Israel’s "violations of basic humanitarian norms and international laws threatens to plunge the Middle East into a war which will not only affect the region.
noLabel	In a poll that asked what institutions made Canada feel most proud about their country, number one was health care, number two was the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and number three was peacekeeping.	In a CBC contest to name "The Greatest Canadian", the three highest ranking in descending order were the social democratic politician and father of medicare Tommy Douglas, the legendary cancer activist Terry Fox, and the Liberal prime minister Pierre Trudeau, which suggested that their voters valued left-of-centre political leanings and community involvement. 
noLabel	Under Stalin, the Soviet Union pursued its own atomic capabilities through a combination of scientific research and espionage directed against the American program.	The Soviets believed that the Americans, with their limited nuclear arsenal, were unlikely to engage in any new world wars, while the Americans were not confident they could prevent a Soviet takeover of Europe, despite their atomic advantage. 
noLabel	I also think it's going to be family friendly," he said.Christine Blower, general secretary of the National Union of Teachers, said Gove was "making policy up on the hoof," without regard for the evidence.	"Teachers and pupils already spend longer hours in the classroom than most countries and also have some of the shortest summer holidays," she said.
noLabel	Ballot papers may be used to discourage votes for a particular party or candidate, using design or other features which confuse voters into voting for a different candidate.	For example, in the 2000 U.S. presidential election, Florida's butterfly ballot paper was criticised as confusing some voters into giving their vote to the wrong candidate.
noLabel	Whether the charter school model can be scaled up to the size of a public noncharter school system has been questioned, when teaching demands more from teachers and many noncharter teachers are apparently unable to teach in the way charters seek, as Arne Duncan, U.S. Secretary of Education, Diane Ravitch, education historian and former assistant U.S. education secretary, Mark Roosevelt, former schools chief for Pittsburgh, Penn., U.S., and Dave Levin, of the KIPP charters, have suggested .	However, some, such as Eva Moskowitz of Success Academy Charter Schools, believe that the work is hard but performable and compensable and that the model can be scaled up .
noLabel	An analysis of 'neutralization' was developed by Sykes and Matza (1957) who believed that there was little difference between delinquents and non-delinquents, with delinquents engaging in non-delinquent behavior most of the time.	They also asserted that most delinquents eventually opt out of the delinquent lifestyle as they grow older, suggesting that there is a basic code of morality in place but that the young are able to deviate by using techniques of neutralization, i.e.
noLabel	On May 27, 1968, the U.S. Supreme Court unanimously held in Green v. County School Board of New Kent County, that Almond's "freedom of choice" plan violated the 14th Amendment .	The ruling led to the collapse of "passive resistance" and to the integration of nearly all public schools throughout the state .
noLabel	Venus would, like also Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune, in the upper layers of their atmospheres, even afford a gravitation almost exactly as strong as that on Earth (see colonization of Venus) .	Many authors, including Carl Sagan, Arthur&nbsp;C. Clarke, and Isaac Asimov, have argued that shipping the excess population into space is not a viable solution to human overpopulation.
noLabel	While on the Gold Coast views of the ocean, proximity to the beach and a large tourist population made apartments a popular choice.	Since the 1960s, these cities maintained much higher population densities than the rest of Australia through the acceptance of apartment buildings. 
noLabel	On January&nbsp;25, 2006, Hamas won the Palestinian legislative elections; the Islamist organization assumed power in March&nbsp;29, 2006, without accepting the terms and conditions set by the Quartet .	Hamas' stance resulted in a near cessation of direct relations between most bilateral donors and the PNA, with only some multilateral agencies and a few donors continuing direct contact and project administration .
noLabel	Sachs points out that the extreme poor lack six major kinds of capital: human capital, business capital, infrastructure, natural capital, public institutional capital, and knowledge capital .	He then details the poverty trap: The poor start with a very low level of capital per person, and then find themselves trapped in poverty because the ratio of capital per person actually falls from generation to generation.
noLabel	Paul has said that the ninth and tenth amendments to the U.S. Constitution do not grant the federal government any authority to legalize or ban abortion, stating that "the federal government has no authority whatsoever to involve itself in the abortion issue.	" However, this has not stopped Paul from voting in favor of a federal ban on partial-birth abortion in 2000 and 2003 . 
noLabel	Renewable power generators are spread across many countries, and wind power alone already provides a significant share of electricity in some areas: for example, 14% in the U.S. state of Iowa, 40% in the northern German state of Schleswig-Holstein, and 20% in Denmark.	Some countries get most of their power from renewables, including Iceland and Paraguay (100%), Norway (98%), Brazil (86%), Austria (62%), New Zealand (65%), and Sweden (54%) . 
noLabel	Not to be outdone, the Soviet Union exploded its first thermonuclear device, designed by the physicist Andrei Sakharov, on August 12, 1953, labeled "Joe-4" by the West.	This created concern within the U.S. government and military, because, unlike "Mike," the Soviet device was a deliverable weapon, which the U.S. did not yet have.
noLabel	In the mid-2000s, within the Bologna process, a reorganization of higher education was started which included more stringent regulations for private education and expanded state policies with regard to private education quality assurance and educational accreditation.	In general, the private higher education institutions were often considered the schools of last resort for underachieving applicants who didn't score enough points in the admission examinations to enter the main public institutions.
noLabel	Wind power is growing at the rate of 30% annually, with a worldwide installed capacity of 198 gigawatts (GW) in 2010, and is widely used in Europe, Asia, and the United States .	At the end of 2010, cumulative global photovoltaic (PV) installations surpassed 40 GW and PV power stations are popular in Germany and Spain .
noLabel	In 1918, the Supreme Court ruled that the World War I draft did not violate the United States Constitution in the Selective Draft Law Cases.	The Court summarized the history of conscription in England and in colonial America, a history that it read as establishing that the Framers envisioned compulsory military service as a governmental power.
noLabel	In the ensuing inquests and trials, all the perpetrators either were acquitted, or received only light punishments for lesser offenses, because the testimony of Chinese witnesses was either completely inadmissible, or else considered less credible than that of others.	Legal discrimination of Asian minorities was furthered with the passages of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, which banned the entrance of virtually all ethnic Chinese immigrants into the United States until 1943. 
noLabel	A person can be an illegal entrant if a third party has secured their entry by deception, even if they were unaware of it.	If a person seeks entry to the UK as a visitor when their true intention is to claim asylum, then they are an illegal entrant as, had the immigration officer known the facts, he would not have granted leave as a visitor. 
noLabel	Buckner & Garcia's Pac-Man Fever, released in 1982, featured songs that were both about famous arcade games like Pac-Man, Donkey Kong, and Berzerk, and also used the sound samples from the games themselves as instrumentation.	In 1984, former Yellow Magic Orchestra member Harry Hosono produced an album entirely from Namco arcade game samples, entitled Video Game Music . 
noLabel	Tropical and temperate rainforests have been subjected to heavy logging and agricultural clearance throughout the 20th century and the area covered by rainforests around the world is shrinking .	Biologists have estimated that large numbers of species are being driven to extinction (possibly more than 50,000 a year; at that rate, says E. O. Wilson of Harvard University, a quarter or more of all species on Earth could be exterminated within 50 years) due to the removal of habitat with destruction of the rainforests. 
noLabel	Aware that the doping scandals of the 1990s that followed the era-defining disgrace of Ben Johnson in Seoul and the realisation that much of East Germany's earlier dominance was based on institutional doping, the World Anti-Doping Agency was set up in 1999 as a joint venture between the International Olympic Committee and governments around the world to provide a co-ordinated global response.	It drew up a universal list of banned substances, sought to harmonise the rules across countries and sports and resolved to drive up testing standards across the world.Earlier this year, London 2012 organisers proudly showed off their glistening new ┬ú20m state-of-the-art testing facility in Harlow.
noLabel	Freedom of information is an extension of freedom of speech, a fundamental human right recognised in international law, which is today understood more generally as freedom of expression in any medium, be it orally, in writing, print, through the Internet or through art forms.	This means that the protection of freedom of speech as a right includes not only the content, but also the means of expression .
noLabel	According to Article II of the IAEA Statute, the objective of the IAEA is "to accelerate and enlarge the contribution of atomic energy to peace, health and prosperity throughout the world."	Its primary functions in this area, according to Article III, are to encourage research and development, to secure or provide materials, services, equipment and facilities for Member States, to foster exchange of scientific and technical information and training . 
noLabel	Goldwater had supported previous attempts to pass Civil Rights legislation in 1957 and 1960 as well as the 24th Amendment outlawing the poll tax.	He stated that the reason for his opposition to the 1964 bill was Title II, which in his opinion violated individual liberty and states rights.
noLabel	However even those in the middle classes will generally have worse health outcomes than those of a higher social stratum .	The new public health seeks to address these health inequalities by advocating for population-based policies that improve health in an equitable manner.
noLabel	People smuggling is defined as "the facilitation, transportation, attempted transportation or illegal entry of a person or persons across an international border, in violation of one or more countries laws, either clandestinely or through deception, such as the use of fraudulent documents" .	The term is understood as and often used interchangeably with migrant smuggling, which is defined by the United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organized Crime as "..the procurement, in order to obtain, directly or indirectly, a financial or other material benefit, of the illegal entry of a person into a state party of which the person is not a national" .
noLabel	Spring training camps open this month with a tough new steroid policy in place and the sport, in a sense, restored to its proper historical balance.	We can assume there will be no more seasons with multiple players hitting 60-plus home runs, nor the abomination of a 73-home-run season.
noLabel	Having promoted the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty since 1954, India dropped its support in 1995 and in 1996 attempted to block the Treaty.	Following the 1998 tests the question has been reopened and both Pakistan and India have indicated their intention to sign the CTBT.
noLabel	The Military Censor, as part of its duty, has authority to suppress information it deems compromising from being made public in the media.	In practice however, the ability of the censor to suppress publication of news stories in the Israeli media is rather limited as Israeli news outlets often circumvent the censor by reporting stories "as quoted from foreign news sources," which, since they were originally published outside of Israel, are not subject to the restrictions of the Israeli military censor .
noLabel	After Rossi was certified as the victor on November 29, Washington State Secretary of State said that "a manual recount was almost a certainty."	This view was shared by the Gregoire campaign with campaign spokesman, Morton Brilliant, saying that "if all the ballots aren't counted, we will go through the next four years with one candidate's supporters not believing the winner was legitimately elected."
noLabel	After this, a Democratic National Committee-commissioned panel led by Senator George McGovern – the McGovern–Fraser Commission – recommended that states adopt new rules to assure wider participation.	A large number of states, faced with the need to conform to more detailed rules for the selection of national delegates, chose a presidential primary as an easier way to come into compliance with the new national Democratic Party rules.
noLabel	Increased taxes coinciding with increased wealth does not seem to follow the laws of cause and effect if the premise that reduced marginal income tax rates caused income inequality is held.	Accordingly, the Tax Revenue Act of 1964 and the "Bush Tax Cuts"did not contribute to income inequality as the percent share of wealth controlled by the top 1% of households declined after the passage of both bills . 
noLabel	used Israeli armed forces required further clarification and they were unable to ascertain their usage, though it received reports from Palestinian and foreign doctors who had operated in Gaza during the military operations of a high percentage of patients with injuries compatible with their impact.	It stated that the "focused lethality" reportedly pursued in DIME weapons could be seen as enhancing compliance with the principle of distinction between civilian and 
noLabel	There are a range of "best practices" associated with "Smart Growth" — these include: supporting existing communities, placing a value on communities and neighborhoods.	redeveloping underutilized sites, enhancing economic competitiveness, providing more transportation choices, developing livability measures and tools, promoting equitable and affordable housing, providing a vision for sustainable growth, enhancing integrated planning and investment, aligning, coordinating, and leveraging government polices, redefining housing affordability and making it transparent. 
noLabel	Since the end of the 19th century, a number of progressive and liberal perspectives of Mariology have been presented, ranging from feminist criticisms to interpretations based on modern psychology and liberal Catholic viewpoints.	These views are generally critical of the Roman Catholic approach to Mariology as well as the Eastern Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches which have even more Marian emphasis within their official liturgies . 
noLabel	A spray-on condom made of latex is intended to be easier to apply and more successful in preventing the transmission of diseases.	As of 2009, the spray-on condom was not going to market because the drying time could not be reduced below two to three minutes . 
noLabel	The history of biodiversity during the Phanerozoic (the last 540 million years), starts with rapid growth during the Cambrian explosion—a period during which nearly every phylum of multicellular organisms first appeared.	Over the next 400 million years or so, invertebrate diversity showed little overall trend, and vertebrate diversity shows an overall exponential trend .
noLabel	The most famous example happened in a Monte Carlo Casino in the summer of 1913, when the ball fell in black 26 times in a row, an extremely uncommon occurrence (but no more or less common than any of the other 67,108,863 sequences of 26 balls, neglecting the 0 slot on the wheel), and gamblers lost millions of francs betting against black after the black streak happened.	Gamblers reasoned incorrectly that the streak was causing an "imbalance" in the randomness of the wheel, and that it had to be followed by a long streak of red .
noLabel	Britain's injured boxer Paul Ingle is meanwhile still in a coma but showing encouraging signs of improvement according to surgeons in Sheffield who are treating him for severe brain and head injuries.	Ingle, 28, was knocked down in the 12th round of his defence of the International Boxing Federation featherweight title by Mbulelo Botile of South Africa at the Sheffield Arena on Saturday night.
noLabel	Bodybuilders are usually thought to require protein with a higher BV than that of soy, which is additionally avoided due to its claimed estrogenic properties .	Still, some nutrition experts believe that soy, flax seeds and many other plants that contain the weak estrogen-like compounds or phytoestrogens can be used beneficially, as phytoestrogens compete with estrogens for receptor sites in the male body and can block its actions.
noLabel	|-- They believe that reservations do not take into account merits and achievements and those who do not deserve hold certain positions get those positions because of reservations and this could lead to deterioration of public services .	They believe they should get reservations because they have been victims of the Brahmin-dominated caste system and reservations as a part of the struggle against the oppression and for changing India’s social structure away from hierarchy .
noLabel	Examples of the latter include the conservative The Politically Incorrect Guide published by Regnery Publishing and the television talk show Politically Incorrect.	In these cases, the term politically incorrect connotes language, ideas, and behavior unconstrained by a perceived orthodoxy or by concerns about offending or expressing bias regarding various groups of people.
noLabel	Class rank tends to benefit top students at less competitive high schools, to the detriment of students at more competitive high schools.	This effect, however, may be intentional, as less-funded, less competitive schools are more likely to be schools where minority enrollment is high.
noLabel	Operation Fast and Furious, by far the largest "gunwalking" probe, led to the sale of over 2,000 firearms, of which fewer than 700 were recovered .	A number of straw purchasers have been arrested and indicted; however, as of October 2011, none of the targeted high−level cartel figures have been arrested . 
noLabel	The Reform Party's slogan "The West Wants In" was echoed by commentators when, after a successful merger with the PCs, the successor party to both parties, the Conservative Party won the 2006 election.	Led by Stephen Harper, who is an MP from Alberta, the electoral victory was said to have made "The West IS In" a reality.
noLabel	The widespread corruption of the Kuomintang, the Chinese Nationalist Party, is often credited as being an important component in the defeat of the KMT by the Communist People's Liberation Army.	Though the Nationalist Army was initially better equipped and had superior numbers, the KMT's rampant corruption damaged its popularity, limited its support base, and helped the communists in their propaganda war. 
noLabel	Individual farmers do not have many other options than converting forests into agricultural land if they are exposed to severe food insecurity.	Their time preference rates are low which means they prefer food today over tomorrow and they definitely can not carry the costs of forest conservation for the larger national or global society.
noLabel	Genetic erosion coupled with genetic pollution may be destroying unique genotypes, thereby creating a hidden crisis which could result in a severe threat to our food security.	Diverse genetic material could cease to exist which would impact our ability to further hybridize food crops and livestock against more resistant diseases and climatic changes .
noLabel	According to the Office for Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, the juvenile violent crime rate index dropped for the second consecutive year in 2010, and is now 5% lower that it was in 2006 .	Additionally, the Children's Defense Fund communicates that boys are five times more likely than girls to become juvenile delinquents (this statistic is further explained below) .
noLabel	Scottish philosopher and economist David Hume said, "I am apt to suspect the Negroes to be naturally inferior to the Whites.	There scarcely ever was a civilised nation of that complexion, nor even any individual, eminent either in action or in speculation.
noLabel	Studies suggest that reducing calorie intake by itself (dieting) may have short-term effects but does not lead to long-term weight loss, and can often result in gaining back all of the lost weight and more in the longer term.	For this reason, it is generally recommended that weight-loss diets not be attempted on their own but instead in combination with increased exercise and long-term planning and weight management. 
noLabel	The missiles were to be based on the RSA-3 and RSA-4 launchers that had already been built and tested for the South African space programme.	Three rockets had already been launched into suborbital trajectories in the late 1980s in support of development of the RSA-3 launched Greensat Orbital Management System (for commercial satellite applications of vehicle tracking and regional planning).
noLabel	Infant circumcision has been abandoned in New Zealand and Britain, and is now much less common in Australia and in Canada (see table 1).	The decline in circumcision in the United Kingdom followed the decision by the National Health Service (NHS) in 1948 not to cover the procedure following an influential article by Douglas Gairdner which claimed that circumcision resulted in the deaths of about 16 children under 5 each year in the United Kingdom .
noLabel	Their standard Project Gunrunner training was to follow the straw purchasers to the hand-off to the cartel buyers, then arrest both parties and seize the guns.	They watched guns being bought illegally and stashed on a daily basis, while their supervisors, including David Voth and Hope MacAllister, prevented the agents from intervening . 
noLabel	From 2010 to 2025, it is estimated by the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development that 300 million Chinese now living in rural areas will move into cities.	The fast pace of urbanization will create at least 1 trillion yuan in annual investment opportunities in building water supply, waste treatment, heating and other public utilities in the cities .
noLabel	The German philosopher and historian Ernst Nolte, starting in the 1980s, advanced a set of theories, which though not denying the Holocaust appeared to flirt with Holocaust denial as a serious historical argument .	In a letter to the Israeli historian Otto Dov Kulka of December 8, 1986 Nolte criticized the work of the French Holocaust denier Robert Faurisson on the ground that the Holocaust did occur, but went on to argue that Faurison’s work was motivated by what Nolte claimed were the admirable motives of sympathy towards the Palestinians and opposition to Israel .
noLabel	Things that do not have owners include: ideas (except for intellectual property), seawater (which is, however, protected by anti-pollution laws), parts of the seafloor (see the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea for restrictions), gases in Earth's atmosphere, animals in the wild (though there may be restrictions on hunting etc.	-- and in some legal systems, such as that of New York, they are actually treated as government property), celestial bodies and outer space, and land in Antarctica. 
noLabel	Thus the claim that circumcision adversely affects penile sensitivity is poorly supported, and this study provides no evidence for the belief that circumcision adversely affects sexual pleasure.	" Hugh Young, a critic of circumcision, responded to this, stating that Waskett and Morris "critique the finding of Sorrells et al.
noLabel	According to Article 4.1(3), an asylum seeker who enters the Russian Federation illegally must file an application with the regional Ministry of Interior (“MOI”) within 24 hours.	According to a 2002 World Refugee Survey, the majority of applications that have been submitted to regional MOI offices are from foreigners who have entered illegally .
noLabel	Along with their actions during the referendum, the League have been active in protecting the symbols of Australia's constitutional monarchy; they acted to ensure that the pledge of loyalty to the monarch remained a part of Scouts Australia, and spoke against the removal of references to the Queen from the Victorian legal system .	Aside from campaigning, the AML distributed copies of William Dargie's portrait of Queen Elizabeth II after the Commonwealth Government Bookshops ceased selling photographs of the monarch . 
noLabel	Among its specific objectives were bettering air defense by improving and modernizing interceptor-fighter aircraft and surface-to-air missiles, improving antisubmarine warfare capability with additional destroyers and fixed-wing antisubmarine patrol aircraft, and upgrading intelligence, reconnaissance, and command, control, and communications.	Most of the goals of this program were met, and the goals of the Mid-Term Defense Estimate for FY 1991 through FY 1995, although building on the early program, were considerably scaled back. 
noLabel	It was a well meant but ultimately over ambitious venture intended to provide the department with a “paperless” office where cases, especially asylum cases, would be electronically prioritised and actioned without the old fashioned processes involving transport and storage of thousands of paper based files.	The system, it was hoped, would not only speed up the process but would pay for itself through a 40% reduction in staff.
noLabel	On the other hand, changes through the Phanerozoic correlate much better with the hyperbolic model (widely used in population biology, demography and macrosociology, as well as fossil biodiversity) than with exponential and logistic models.	The latter models imply that changes in diversity are guided by a first-order positive feedback (more ancestors, more descendants) and/or a negative feedback arising from resource limitation.
noLabel	In the long-run, Medicare and Medicaid are projected to increase dramatically relative to GDP, while other categories of spending are expected to remain relatively constant.	The Congressional Budget Office expects Medicare and Medicaid to rise from 5.3% GDP in 2009 to 10.0% in 2035 and 19.0% by 2082.
noLabel	TCU would defeat Wisconsin 21–19 in the 2011 Rose Bowl, once again calling into question the claim of BCS Conference superiority, and doing so with an entirely new level of quality of play.	There was a strong movement to lobby those voting in the AP poll, which is not bound to vote for the BCS Championship winner as the Coaches Poll is, to vote TCU first and split the National Championship.
noLabel	Many economists believe that one of the main reasons that inequality might induce economic incentive is because material well-being and conspicuous consumption are related to status.	In this view, high stratification of income (high inequality) creates high amounts of social stratification, leading to greater competition for status. 
noLabel	Human rights organisations such as Amnesty International have argued that the government's new policies, particularly those concerning detention centres, have detrimental effects on asylum applicants and their children, and those facilities have seen a number of hunger strikes and suicides.	Others have argued that recent government policies aimed at reducing 'bogus' asylum claims have had detrimental impacts on those genuinely in need of protection . 
noLabel	Paul calls for the eventual elimination of Medicare (federally-funded health care for the elderly and disabled) and Medicaid (health care for the poor, jointly funded by the federal and state governments), and he has been a staunch opponent of the Affordable Care Act health insurance reform law that was enacted in 2010 .	He says that federally-funded healthcare is “unconstitutional” and that the costs of the programs are unsustainable and are bankrupting the government . 
noLabel	Information about a person's purchases can reveal a great deal about that person's history, such as places he/she has visited, whom he/she has contacted with, products he/she has used, his/her activities and habits, or medications he/she has used.	In some cases corporations might wish to use this information to target individuals with marketing customized towards those individual's personal preferences, something which that person may or may not approve of.
noLabel	It closed during the American Revolution, and reopened in 1784 under the name of Columbia College; it is now Columbia University.	The Academy of Pennsylvania was created in 1749 by Benjamin Franklin and other civic minded leaders in Philadelphia, and unlike the others was not oriented toward the training of ministers.
noLabel	This is also one of the main drawbacks of the system as fossil fuel powerplants are polluting and are a main cause of global warming (nuclear power being an exception).	Although fossil fuel power plants too can made emissionless (through carbon capture and storage), as well as renewable (if the plants are converted to e.g.
noLabel	This act came after years of failed attempts at dechristianisation or state-controlled religion, which were thwarted in part due to the resistance of devout counter-revolutionary women.	After the upheaval of the revolutionary period, the reestablishment of the Church was seen by many people as a welcome return to normalcy.
noLabel	- Swiss President Micheline Calmy-Rey spoke at the opening of the UN's 62nd General Assembly and addressed the use of force by Burma's military junta against pro-democracy demonstrators calling the situation "alarming".	Calmy-Rey went on by adding that Switzerland favoured a dialogue, among all parties involved, under leadership of the UN secretary-general's special envoy to Burma, Ibrahim Gambari . 
noLabel	The organization was founded by author Bill McKibben, an American environmentalist and writer who frequently writes about global warming, alternative energy, and the need for more localised economies.	McKibben promotes the organisation, for instance by writing articles about it for many major newspapers and media, such the Los Angeles Times and The Guardian . 
noLabel	"The courage of the people of Burma is amazing and now they have been joined by their holy men," the Nobel peace laureate said in a statement.	"It is so like the rolling mass action that eventually toppled apartheid," he said of the growing street protests in Myanmar.
noLabel	The East African countries, on attaining independence, pursued a policy of Africanization that required residents to demonstrate their allegiance to the new state.	Many Indians in Kenya for instance either did not fulfill the conditions for acquiring the new citizenship or did not register within the time limit, preferring to wait and see how their fortunes were likely to go in the new regime before committing themselves.
noLabel	Segregation also took the form of redlining, the practice of denying or increasing the cost of services, such as banking, insurance, access to jobs, access to health care, or even supermarkets to residents in certain, often racially determined, areas.	Although in the United States informal discrimination and segregation have always existed, the practice called "redlining" began with the National Housing Act of 1934, which established the Federal Housing Administration (FHA).
noLabel	A coalition of five human-rights organizations addressed Julian Assange, founder and editor of the Wikileaks website, expressing their concerns for the safety of persons identified in the published documents.	These human-rights groups were Amnesty International, Campaign for Innocent Victims in Conflict (CIVIC), Open Society Institute (OSI), the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission and the Kabul office of the International Crisis Group (ICG), all worried about the execution of Afghan civilians by the Taliban and other insurgent groups.
noLabel	Under the Equality Act 2010 section 26, a person harasses another if he or she engages in unwanted conduct related to a relevant protected characteristic, and the conduct has the purpose or effect of violating the other's dignity, or creating an intimidating, hostile, degrading, humiliating or offensive environment for the other.	It is also harassment if a person treats another less favourably because the other has rejected or submitted to unwanted conduct of a sexual nature.
noLabel	Prophylactic measures exist.” In 1996, the Social Commission of the French Bishops' Conference said that condom use “can be understood in the case of people for whom sexual activity is an ingrained part of their lifestyle and for whom [that activity] represents a serious risk.” In 1993, the German Bishops Conference noted: “In the final analysis, human conscience constitutes the decisive authority in personal ethics.. consideration must be given..to the spread of AIDS.	It is a moral duty to prevent such suffering, even if the underlying behavior cannot be condoned in many cases..The church..has to respect responsible decision-making by couples.” .
noLabel	On 4 March 2007, in the Shinwar shooting, U.S. Marines opened fire on civilians after witnessing a suicide bombing and supposedly coming under small arms fire.	The Guardian reported their actions: "The marines made a frenzied escape [from the scene of the bombing], opening fire with automatic weapons as they tore down a six-mile stretch of highway, hitting almost anyone in their way&nbsp;– teenage girls in the fields, motorists in their cars, old men as they walked along the road.
noLabel	There were some notable successes and, although undocumented arrivals had risen by 17% the previous year, this was not the case where the ALO’s were deployed.	In 1998 ALO's in five locations, working under a code of conduct ratified by the Air Transport Association Control Authority Working Group, prevented 2095 passengers travelling with suspect documentation.
noLabel	After the news of child labourers working in embroidery industry was uncovered in the Sunday Observer on 28 October 2007, BBA activists swung into action.	The GAP Inc. in a statement accepted that the child labourers were working in production of GAP Kids blouses and has already made a statement to pull the products from the shelf .
noLabel	The in-fighter is generally successful in this case, due to his intensity in advancing on his opponent and his good agility, which makes him difficult to evade.	An example of this type of fight is the first fight between Ali and Joe Frazier, the Fight of the Century. 
noLabel	Nigeria has already implemented windmills in some of its states but the more this approach is taken on the more energy that will be produced in an environmentally sound and efficient way.	Each of these proposals are accepted globally as good alternatives to current energy production methods and have been encouraged by many environmental organizations.
noLabel	..Lise Meitner.. worked out that the two nuclei formed by the division of a uranium nucleus together would be lighter than the original uranium nucleus by about one-fifth the mass of a proton.	Now whenever mass disappears energy is created, according to Einstein's formula E=mc2, and one-fifth of a proton mass was just equivalent to 200MeV.
noLabel	As a theory of criminal behavior, subculture of violence theory claims that certain groups or subcultures exist in society in which violence is viewed as an appropriate response to what, in the context of that subculture, are perceived as threatening situations.	Building upon the work of cultural anthropologist Walter B. Miller's focal concerns theory, which focused on the social mechanisms behind delinquency in adolescents, sociologists Marvin E. Wolfgang and Franco Ferracuti proposed that the disproportionally high rate of crime among African Americans could be explained by their possessing a unique racial subculture in which violence is experienced and perceived in a manner different from that commonly observed in mainstream American culture . 
noLabel	Symbolic racism (also known as symbolic prejudice) is a set of beliefs in which the subject views a certain race as an abstract group rather than as specific individuals (Whitley & Kite, 2010).	These beliefs include the stereotype of Black people being morally inferior to White people, violating White American values such as ‘hard-working’ or ‘independent.’ These beliefs cause the subject to discriminate against a certain race and justify it on a non-racial bias, but the beliefs operate to sustain the racial status quo .
noLabel	Violence content in video game is often a source of criticism, which again according to Terry Flew is related to the subject of 'moral panic' .	Terry Flew writes that the 'effects-based' research which gives rise to the 'computer games cause violence' discourse is mostly psychology-based research, influenced particularly after horrific events such as the shooting of schoolchildren at Columbine High School in Littleton, Colorado in 1999.
noLabel	On 3 May 2011 Blessed Pope John Paul&nbsp;II was given a new resting place in the marble altar in Pier Paolo Cristofari's Chapel of St. Sebastian, which is where Pope Innocent XI was buried.	This more prominent location, next to the Chapel of the Pieta, the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament and statues of Popes Pius XI and Pius XII, was intended to allow more pilgrims to view his memorial.
noLabel	The values of classical political economy are strongly associated with the classical liberal doctrine of minimal government intervention in the economy, though it does not necessarily oppose the state's provision of a few basic public goods .	Classical liberal thought has generally assumed a clear division between the economy and other realms of social activity, such as the state . 
noLabel	Modern agronomy, plant breeding, pesticides and fertilizers, and technological improvements have sharply increased yields from cultivation, but at the same time have caused widespread ecological damage and negative human health effects .	Selective breeding and modern practices in animal husbandry such as intensive pig farming have similarly increased the output of meat, but have raised concerns about animal cruelty and the health effects of the antibiotics, growth hormones, and other chemicals commonly used in industrial meat production . 
noLabel	This arrangement is a vestige of the Spanish-era "frialocracy," where clergymen had varying degrees of temporal power and control over the secular economy.	Recent examples of the Church's continued presence in public life are the 1986 People Power Revolution and the current debate over the Reproductive Health Bill. 
noLabel	Ngwe Kyar Yan Monastery in Rangoon, where some 200 monks were detained in the early morning two days earlier, was reported to have been looted by soldiers.	Everything of value was said to have been removed, including forty or more Buddha statues and the head of one of the largest Buddhas which contains valuable jewels . 
noLabel	Republicanism in the United Kingdom is the movement which seeks to remove the British monarchy and replace it with a republic that has a non-hereditary head of state.	The method by which the head of state should be chosen is not agreed upon, with some favouring an elected president, some an appointed head of state with little power, and others supporting the idea of leaving the political system as it is but without a monarch.
noLabel	Walters and Jimenez have illustrated the changes in the geographic distribution and the rates of growth of immigration in the United States.	They show the number of foreign-born individuals in states where the foreign-born population grew by a factor of two or more between 1990 and 2000.
noLabel	Pharmaceutical patents prevent generic alternatives to enter the market until the patents expire, and thus maintains high prices for medication .	This can have significant effects in the developing world, as those who are most in need of basic essential medicines are unable to afford such high priced pharmaceuticals .
noLabel	Though their newsletter's name recalls the suicide manual Final Exit, the idea of mass suicide is rejected, and they have adopted the slogan "May we live long and die out" .	A 1995 survey of VHEMT members found that a majority of VHEMT members felt a strong moral obligation to protect the earth, distrusted the ability of political processes to prevent harm to the environment, and were willing to surrender some of their rights for their cause.
noLabel	Free speech zones (also known as First Amendment Zones, Free speech cages, and Protest zones) are areas set aside in public places for citizens of the United States engaged in political activism to exercise their right of free speech.	The First Amendment to the United States Constitution states that "Congress shall make no law.. abridging.. the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
noLabel	The International Atomic Energy Agency found, however, that the symbol is unintuitive and can be variously interpreted by those uneducated in its meaning, and that its role as a hazard warning was compromised as it did not clearly indicate "danger" to many non-Westerners and children who encountered it.	As a result of research, a new radiation hazard symbol was developed to be placed near the most dangerous parts of radiation sources featuring a skull, someone running away, and using the color red rather than yellow as the background .
noLabel	The Revolution represented the most significant and dramatic challenge to political absolutism up to that point in history and, despite its failures, spread democratic ideals throughout Europe and ultimately the world .	It had a profound impact on the Russian Revolution and its ideas inspired Mao Zedong in his efforts at constructing a communist state in China .
noLabel	Among the most effective such programmes to prevent child maltreatment and reduce childhood aggression are the Nurse Family Partnership home-visiting programme and the Triple P (Parenting Program) .	There is also emerging evidence that these programmes reduce convictions and violent acts in adolescence and early adulthood, and probably help decrease intimate partner violence and self-directed violence in later life .
noLabel	"It clearly show[s] that the problem of what we must do as human beings, of how we should live our lives so that we and the world may become just, is the essential problem of our day, and basically of all ages.	After the fall of ideologies, the problem of man—the moral problem—is presented to today's context in a totally new way: What should we do?
noLabel	In May 2007, the AoC released its "Implementation Plan 2007-2009", which elaborated on the notion that the AoC will not replace or reconstitute any existing plans or political channels.	Rather, the AoC will facilitate its goals primarily through partnership operations among a variety of existing groups, and also through projects in youth, education, media, and . 
noLabel	Many ancient civilizations, such as the Babylonians, Indians and Chinese, burnt incense as a part of religious rituals, as did the Israelites and the later Catholic and Orthodox Christian churches.	In Ancient Greece, smoke was used as healing practice and the Oracle of Delphi made prophecies while intoxicated by inhaling natural gases from a natural bore hole.
noLabel	These lines praise God and request the permission of God, the Torah, Kohanim and distinguished people present to proceed with the grace.	When the four main blessings are concluded, special ha-Rachaman prayers are recited which request that God bless the parents of the baby, and help them raise him wisely; the sandek; the baby boy to have strength and grow up to trust in God and perceive Him three times a year; the mohel for unhesitatingly performing the ritual; to send the Jewish Messiah speedily in the merit of this mitzvah; and to send Elijah the prophet, known as "The Righteous Kohen", so that God's covenant can be fulfilled with the re-establishment of the throne of King David.
noLabel	In regards of 2009 the flawed statistics made it impossible to predict accurate numbers for GDP growth, budget deficit and the public debt; which by the end of the year all turned out to be far worse than originally anticipated.	As the new Greek government acknowledged the need for a stronger statistical credibility, both in order to restore the trust among financial investors and as a mean for the government to better know the level and necessity of future economic reforms (in advance), they now pledged to correct all previous statistical methodological issues, "by making the National Statistics Service an independent legal entity and phasing in, during the first quarter of 2010, all the necessary checks and balances that will improve the accuracy and reporting of fiscal statistics". 
noLabel	In China, perceived behavioral problems in single children may be disparagingly called Little Emperor Syndrome and the lack of siblings has been blamed for a number of social ills such as materialism and crime.	However, recent studies do not support these claims, and show no significant differences in personality between singletons and children in larger families .
noLabel	Another possible motivation for eliminating nuclear weapons in South Africa was the probability of an ANC government in the near future.	The ANC was listed as a terrorist organisation by the USA, and it had a long history of co-operation with leaders like Muammar Gaddafi and organisations such as the PLO .
noLabel	A major reason why states try to increase their influence, and vie for earlier primaries, is because in recent years the races were usually over before the primary season ended in June.	For example, John McCain officially clinched the 2008 Republican presidential nomination in March, while during that same month Barack Obama held an insurmountable lead in pledged delegates in the Democratic Party primaries .
noLabel	The FAA cleared the construction of the wind farm on May 17, 2010 after raising concerns that the windmills could cause interference with radar system at nearby Otis Air Force Base.	Cape Wind agreed to fix the base's current system to ensure that it would not be affected by the wind farm . 
noLabel	In a second example, imagine the case of a bank making a loan to an entrepreneur for a risky business venture.	The entrepreneur becoming overly risky would be ex-ante moral hazard, but willful default (wrongly claiming the ventured failed when it was profitable) is ex-post moral hazard.
noLabel	Wembley Stadium (England football team, FA Cup finals, Football League Cup finals, FA Community Shield, Football League play-offs, and Football League Trophy) 90,000.	Wembley has also been used by the Great Britain rugby league team, and for major club matches in both rugby codes.
noLabel	The opposed Southern Democratic Party successfully contested several elections throughout the 1830s, 1840s, and 1850s in part over the increasing tariffs and protections of industry which was seen as more and more beneficial to the North at the cost of the South.	Representing themselves as the champions of the farmer and the artisan and craftsman against the factory owner, the southern faction of the Democratic Party and the Whigs remained dominate in national affairs.
noLabel	It expressed its intention to contribute to an international effort to "explore additional ways to improve the situation in Gaza, including greater freedom of movement and commerce between Gaza and the West Bank.	" Hamas dismissed the measures as trivial and "media propaganda", and demanded a complete lifting of the blockade, including the removal on all restrictions on the import of construction material .
noLabel	On May 29, 2011 four Mexican Federal Police helicopters attacked a cartel compound, where they were met with heavy fire, including from a .50 caliber rifle.	According to a report from the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, this rifle is likely linked to Fast and Furious . 
noLabel	Underground testing can result in seismic activity depending on the yield of the nuclear device and the composition of the medium it is detonated in, and generally result in the creation of subsidence craters .	In 1976, the United States and the USSR agreed to limit the maximum yield of underground tests to 150 kt with the Threshold Test Ban Treaty. 
noLabel	Over two hundred studies have been published which examine the effects of violence in entertainment media and which at least partially focus on violence in video games in particular.	Some psychological studies have shown a correlation between children playing violent video games and suffering psychological effects, although many other studies find no such link causation. 
noLabel	Astrophysicist Martin Rees, who has described himself as an unbeliever who identifies with Christianity from a cultural perspective, has suggested that Dawkins' attack on mainstream religion is unhelpful .	Regarding Rees' claim in his book Our Cosmic Habitat that "such questions lie beyond science", Dawkins asks "what expertise can theologians bring to deep cosmological questions that scientists cannot?
noLabel	The court first addressed the VSDA's argument that the entire Act should be invalidated based on the defendant's concession on appeal that the definition of "violent video game" in the Act is unconstitutionally broad.	However, the statute had a severability clause so the court went through the severability test set forth in Hotel Employees & Rest.
noLabel	An important aspect of extinction at the present time are human attempts to preserve critically endangered species, which is reflected by the creation of the conservation status "Extinct in the Wild" (EW).	Species listed under this status by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) are not known to have any living specimens in the wild, and are maintained only in zoos or other artificial environments.
noLabel	Some theological noncognitivists assert that to be a strong atheist is to give credence to the concept of God because it assumes that there actually is something understandable to not believe in.	This can be confusing because of the widespread belief in God and the common use of the series of letters G-o-d as if it is already understood that it has some cognitively understandable meaning.
noLabel	They also include personal hygiene practices to prevent infection and illness, such as bathing and washing hands with soap; brushing and flossing teeth; storing, preparing and handling food safely; and many others.	The information gleaned from personal observations of daily living - such as about sleep patterns, exercise behavior, nutritional intake, and environmental features - may be used to inform personal decisions and actions (e.g., "I feel tired in the morning so I am going to try sleeping on a different pillow"), as well as clinical decisions and treatment plans (e.g., a patient who notices his or her shoes are tighter than usual may be having exacerbation of left-sided heart failure, and may require diuretic medication to reduce fluid overload) . 
noLabel	The definition of what exactly constitutes an obscenity differs from culture to culture, between communities within a single culture, and also between individuals within those communities.	Many cultures have produced laws to define what is considered to be obscene, and censorship is often used to try to suppress or control materials that are obscene under these definitions: usually including, but not limited to, pornographic material. 
noLabel	The 393rd Bomb Squadron began replacement of its original B-29s with modified Silverplate aircraft with the delivery of three new B-29s in mid-October 1944 .	These aircraft had extensive bomb bay modifications and a "weaponeer" station installed, but initial training operations identified numerous other modifications necessary to the mission, particularly in reducing the overall weight of the aircraft to offset the heavy loads it would be required to carry.
noLabel	It seeks to foster legislation and policy that strengthens developing countries’ capacity for enhancing pluralism in law, justice, the arts, the media, financial services, health and education.	In addition, it will deliver programs, facilitate dialogue, develop pedagogical materials and work with partners worldwide to build capacity to promote indigenous approaches to pluralism within countries and communities . 
noLabel	Public debate over the farm bill continued, and the Senate proposed sweeping amendments to the bill, leading to a series of meetings from February through April.	As a result, the current farm bill was not passed until May 2002, after the 1996 farm bill had already expired.
noLabel	Regarding the inconclusive nature of some findings, media researchers often contend that it is the critics who are misinterpreting or selectively reporting studies (Anderson et al., 2003).	It may be that both sides of the debate are highlighting separate findings that are most favorable to their own "cause". 
noLabel	We must go elsewhere, therefore, to ascertain its meaning, and nowhere more appropriately, we think, than to the history of the times in the midst of which the provision was adopted."	The court found that the leaders in advocating and formulating the constitutional guarantee of religious liberty were James Madison and Thomas Jefferson.
noLabel	In Limits to Capital (1982), David Harvey outlines an overdetermined, "spatially restless" capitalism coupled with the spatiality of crisis formation and resolution.	Harvey used Marx’s theory of crisis to aid his argument that capitalism must have its “fixes” but that we cannot predetermine what fixes will be implemented, nor in what form they will be.
noLabel	NCH plans to offer classes from October 2012, with annual fees of £18,000, twice the maximum fee public universities in England may charge domestic students from 2012, and similar to those for private universities in the United States .	The New College of the Humanities Trust aims to provide 50 assisted places in the first year, out of 200 places overall.
noLabel	Behavioral symptoms that can follow TBI include disinhibition, inability to control anger, impulsiveness, lack of initiative, inappropriate sexual activity, and changes in personality .	Different behavioral problems are characteristic of the location of injury; for instance, frontal lobe injuries often result in disinhibition and inappropriate or childish behavior, and temporal lobe injuries often cause irritability and aggression .
noLabel	Special rules apply in the case of statements made in the press concerning public figures, which can be used as a defense.	A series of court rulings led by New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, 376 U.S. 254 (1964) established that for a public official (or other legitimate public figure) to win a libel case, the statement must have been published knowing it to be false or with reckless disregard to its truth, (also known as actual malice) . 
noLabel	Krauss, a physics professor at Arizona State University, said he would visit for a month during the first year, and would give 10-15 lectures .	Zuckerman will teach up to 20 hours; he said the pay was comparable to fees for visiting professors in the United States.
noLabel	David Albright and Chris McGreal have claimed that South African projects to develop nuclear weapons during the 1970s and 1980s were undertaken with some cooperation from Israel .	The United Nations Security Council Resolution 418 of 4 November 1977 introduced a mandatory arms embargo against South Africa, also requiring all states to refrain from "any co-operation with South Africa in the manufacture and development of nuclear weapons" . 
noLabel	If you're in favor of freedom of speech, that means you're in favor of freedom of speech precisely for views you despise.	" Professor Lee Bollinger argues that "the free speech principle involves a special act of carving out one area of social interaction for extraordinary self-restraint, the purpose of which is to develop and demonstrate a social capacity to control feelings evoked by a host of social encounters."
noLabel	Under both of the collective rights models, the opening phrase was considered essential as a pre-condition for the main clause .	These interpretations held that this was a grammar structure that was common during that era and that this grammar dictated that the Second Amendment protected a collective right to firearms to the extent necessary for militia duty . 
noLabel	Nils Melzer defines targeted killing in Targeted Killing in International Law as, "The use of lethal force attributable to a subject of international law with the intent, premeditation and deliberation to kill individually selected persons who are not in the custody of those targeting them.	" Melzer analyzes all areas of the subject matter of targeted killing, including ways in which police forces utilize the tactic . 
noLabel	A National Journal poll in February 2012 reported: "When asked to identify the biggest reason the federal government faces large deficits for the coming years, just 3 percent of those surveyed said it was because of 'too much government spending on programs for the elderly'; only 14 percent said the principal reason was 'too much government spending on programs for poor people.'	Those explanations were dwarfed by the 24 percent who attributed the deficits primarily to excessive defense spending, and the 46 percent plurality who said their principal cause was that 'wealthy Americans don’t pay enough in taxes.'
noLabel	Entrance into graduate programs usually depends upon a student's undergraduate academic performance or professional experience as well as their score on a standardized entrance exam like the Graduate Record Examination (GRE-graduate schools in general), the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT), or the Law School Admission Test (LSAT).	Many graduate and law schools do not require experience after earning a bachelor's degree to enter their programs; however, business school candidates are usually required to gain a few years of professional work experience before applying.
noLabel	Somehow, they must persuade sponsors and the public that the pharmaceutical materials typically taken by athletes are not drugs, at least not in the way they are popularly conceived.	The alternative is to persist in the self-defeating search for ever more sophisticated and comprehensive tests to detect substances that probably do not even have a name at the moment.
noLabel	The commission questioned the motivations of the Flotilla stating that "There exist serious questions about the conduct, true nature and objectives of the flotilla organizers, particularly IHH".	The commission recognized that the IDF were met with "organized and violent resistance from a group of passengers" upon boarding the vessel and therefore force was necessary for purposes of self defense, but stated that "the loss of life and injuries resulting from the use of force by Israeli forces during the take-over of the Mavi Marmara was unacceptable". 
noLabel	The two highest vote-winners in the "primary"&mdash;in effect the first round of a two-round system&mdash;are then the only candidates whose names would appear on the ballot at the general election, effectively requiring one candidate to win an absolute majority to take the office.	The state of Washington, adopted a virtually identical system to Louisiana's in 2008, which came into effect after legal difficulties in 2010; California approved a similar system in 2010, coming into effect for major state and federal elections in the elections as of the 36th congressional district election in February 2011. 
noLabel	In the case of the Chagos Archipelago, in 2000, the High Court of Justice of England and Wales ruled that a local ordinance made by the Commissioner of the British Indian Ocean Territory exiling the islanders was unlawful, a decision which was accepted by the British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook.	That Order was legislation passed under authority given by the royal prerogative, not an exercise of the prerogative itself, and was overturned as being beyond the powers given.
noLabel	There are a number of legal issues to be addressed in order to abolish the monarchy, though individuals on both sides of the argument take a different view of the level of difficulty faced.	 Much of the unsurety involves the reserve powers of the sovereign; the relationship between the various regions of the Realm of New Zealand presently sharing the same sovereign (the absence of these matters from republican arguments having been criticised as a "self-centredness of republican discussions in New Zealand"); and effects on the relationship between the Crown and Māori, specifically, the continued legal status of the Treaty of Waitangi and its claims and settlements.
noLabel	Almost four in five Internet users and non-users around the world felt that access to the Internet was a fundamental right (50% strongly agreed, 29% somewhat agreed, 9% somewhat disagreed, 6% strongly disagreed, and 6% gave no opinion) .	And while there is strong support for this right in all of the countries surveyed, it is surprising that the United States and Canada were among the top five countries where people most strongly disagreed that access to the Internet was a fundamental right of all people (13% in Japan, 11% in the U.S., 11% in Kenya, 11% in Pakistan, and 10% in Canada strongly disagree) .
noLabel	Other Asian countries gave women the right to vote in the mid 20th century – Japan (1945), China (1947) and Indonesia (1955).	In Africa women generally got the right to vote along with men through universal suffrage – Liberia (1947), Uganda (1958) and Nigeria (1960).
noLabel	The Royal Commission on Bilingualism and Biculturalism established on July 19, 1963 by the Liberal Party government of Prime Minister Lester B. Pearson was in response to the grievances of Canada's French-speaking minority (concentrated in the Province of Quebec) .	The report of the Commission advocated that the Canadian government should recognize Canada as a bilingual and bicultural society and adopt policies to preserve this character . 
noLabel	Studies show that lobbying and political pressure exerted by special interest groups are not departures from typical behavior in a modern democracy (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).	Conditions imposed upon the social choice of the legislature imply a more severe restriction on the individual voter’s preferences than the theory of logrolling presented by Buchanan and Tullock and assumed by Aarow’s General Possibility Theory (Wilson 1969). 
noLabel	Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, released in October 2004, is set in 1992, focusing on California gang life and the awakening of the drug epidemic brought on by crack cocaine.	The setting was in the fictional state of San Andreas, which was based on some California and Nevada cities, specifically Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Las Vegas.
noLabel	A recent review of the available scientific literature concluded that the apparent decrease in Alzheimer risk may be simply because smokers tend to die before reaching the age at which Alzheimer normally occurs.	"Differential mortality is always likely to be a problem where there is a need to investigate the effects of smoking in a disorder with very low incidence rates before age 75 years, which is the case of Alzheimer's disease," it stated, noting that smokers are only half as likely as non-smokers to survive to the age of 80 . 
noLabel	Relative deprivation is the experience of being deprived of something to which one believes oneself to be entitled to have .	It refers to the discontent people feel when they compare their positions to others and realize that they have less than them . 
noLabel	For example, in China, the Jane Goodall Institute, through their Shanghai Roots & Shoots division, launched the Million Tree Project in Kulun Qi, Inner Mongolia to plant one million trees to stop desertification and help curb climate change .	China has used 24 billion metres squared of new forest plantation and natural forest regrowth to offset 21% of Chinese fossil fuel emissions in 2000.
noLabel	Due to the fact that the United Nations is specifically focusing on Sub-Saharan Africa and Southern Asia, as they are both home to the vast majority of children out of school, they hypothesize that they might not be able to reach their goal by 2015.	According to the September 2010 fact sheet, this is because there are still about 69 million school-age children are not in school and almost half of them are in sub-Saharan Africa and more than a quarter are in Southern Asia .
noLabel	Only five general elections (1976, 1979, 1991, 2006 and 2010) have given the centre-right bloc enough seats in Parliament to form a government.	However, due to poor economic performance since the beginning of the 1970s, and especially since the fiscal crisis of the early 1990s, Sweden's political system has become less one-sided, and more like other European countries. 
noLabel	In response to the report, a dozen English-speaking reservists who served in Gaza delivered signed, on-camera counter-testimonies via the SoldiersSpeakOut group, about Hamas "use of Gazans as human shields and the measures the IDF took to protect Arab civilians" .	The special report by Israeli filmmaker Nurit Kedar shown on Channel 4 detailed similar allegations by former IDF soldiers that included vandalism and misconduct by Israeli troops . 
noLabel	High-rise apartment buildings had already appeared in antiquity: the insulae in ancient Rome and several other cities in the Roman Empire, some of which might have reached up to 10 or more storeys, one reportedly having 200 stairs .	Because of the destruction caused by poorly-built high-rise insulae collapsing, several Roman emperors, beginning with Augustus (r. 30 BC - 14 AD), set limits of 20–25 metres for multi-storey buildings, but met with limited success, as these limits were often ignored despite the likelihood of taller insulae collapsing .
noLabel	On July 5, 1960, five days after the Congo gained independence from Belgium, the Force Publique garrison near Léopoldville mutinied against its white officers and attacked numerous European targets.	This caused the fear amongst the approximately 100,000 whites still resident in the Congo and led to their mass exodus from the country . 
noLabel	Individuals are usually assured that the electricity they are using is actually produced from a green energy source that they control.	Once the system is paid for, the owner of a renewable energy system will be producing their own renewable electricity for essentially no cost and can sell the excess to the local utility at a profit.
noLabel	In 1938, the Foreign Agents Registration Act required an explicit listing of all political activities undertaken by a lobbyist on behalf of any foreign principal .	There had serious concerns about lobbying firms representing foreign entities – and potentially values opposed to American principles - after Axis power agitprop was planted in American soils during World War II through the efforts of public-relations specialist Ivy Lee's proxy firm "German Dye Trust" .
noLabel	Runoff voting can be influenced by strategic nomination; this is where candidates and political factions influence the result of an election by either nominating extra candidates or withdrawing a candidate who would otherwise have stood.	Runoff voting is vulnerable to strategic nomination for the same reasons that it is open to the voting tactic of "compromising".
noLabel	The Lebanese opposition party and paramilitary group Hezbollah issued a statement denouncing the "horrible terrorist crime committed by the Zionist occupation forces against innocent civilians on a human[e] mission to express solidarity with the Palestinians besieged in the Gaza strip."	Adding that this was apparently proof of the "inherent evil in Zionists which targets all human beings regardless of their confession and race as long as they're ready to stand by righteousness in the face of the persistent Zionist terrorism against the Palestinians."
noLabel	Second, that what has been uncovered in Australia is also taking place elsewhere, including the UK.At Wada, there is deep frustration with many sporting governing bodies and governments.	"Perhaps there is too much conservatism, too much concern for brand and reputation, and not enough zeal for the task," said its president, John Fahey.It is only in the last five years that serious, international, organised crime gangs have gripped the market for the supply and distribution of performance-enhancing drugs.And while it is tempting to characterise the war on performance-enhancing drugs as an "arms race" between those devising new ways to cheat and those trying to catch them, the depressing truth is that many international federations and national governments fail to use the tools they have at their disposal.
noLabel	The SDF disaster relief role is defined in Article 83 of the Self-Defense Forces Law of 1954, requiring units to respond to calls for assistance from prefectural governors to aid in fire fighting, earthquake disasters, searches for missing persons, rescues, and reinforcement of embankments and levees in the event of flooding.	The SDF has not been used in police actions, nor is it likely to be assigned any internal security tasks in the future .
noLabel	With GitHub, contributors can simply fork their own copy of a repository with one click, and issue a pull request from the appropriate branch when their changes are ready.	GitHub has become an extremely popular hosting site for open source software, and the ease of forking and the visibility of forks has made it a popular way for contributors to make changes, large and small. 
noLabel	The Compact City or city of short distances is an urban planning and urban design concept, which promotes relatively high residential density with mixed land uses.	It is based on an efficient public transport system and has an urban layout which – according to its advocates – encourages walking and cycling, low energy consumption and reduced pollution.
noLabel	Situationists argue that consumerism creates “a limitless artificiality”, blurring the lines of reality and detracting from the essence of human experience .	In the "culture jamming" context, détournement means taking symbols, logos and slogans that are considered to be the vehicles upon which the "dominant discourse" of "late capitalism" is communicated and changing them&nbsp;&ndash; frequently in significant but minor ways&nbsp;&ndash; to subvert the "monologue of the ruling order" [Debord]. 
noLabel	Freedom of speech and censorship are often phrased as opposite sides of a continuum that balance personal freedom with societal duty.	Famous as a battle-ground between Left and Right in the United States, the United Kingdom and elsewhere, issues of free speech are often championed by human rights organisations around the world seeking to support those fighting against repressive regimes (examples include Aung San Suu Kyi, Vaclav Havel, and Lech Walesa).
noLabel	Former U.S. officials Henry Kissinger, George Shultz, Bill Perry, and Sam Nunn proposed in January 2007 that the United States rededicate itself to the goal of eliminating nuclear weapons, concluding: "We endorse setting the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons and working energetically on the actions required to achieve that goal.	" Arguing a year later that "with nuclear weapons more widely available, deterrence is decreasingly effective and increasingly hazardous," the authors concluded that although "it is tempting and easy to say we can't get there from here, .
noLabel	Involuntary unemployment does not exist in agrarian societies nor is it formally recognized to exist in underdeveloped but urban societies, such as the mega-cities of Africa and of India/Pakistan.	In such societies, a suddenly unemployed person must meet their survival needs either by getting a new job at any price, becoming an entrepreneur, or joining the underground economy of the hustler . 
noLabel	The objective of each level is simply to locate the exit room that leads to the next area, marked with an exit sign and/or a special kind of door, while surviving all hazards on the way.	Among the obstacles are demonic monsters, pits of toxic or radioactive slime, ceilings that lower and crush the player, and locked doors for which a keycard, skull-shaped key device, or remote switch must be located.
noLabel	Locke expounded on the idea of natural rights that are inherent to all individuals, a concept Madison mentioned in his speech presenting the Bill of Rights to the 1st Congress.	Locke's argument for protecting economic rights against government may have been most salient to the framers of the Amendments; quartering and cruel punishments were not the current abuses of 1791 .
noLabel	Over time, the balance of power between the various Mexican cartels shifts as new ones emerge and older ones weaken and collapse.	A disruption in the system, such as the arrests or deaths of cartel leaders, generates bloodshed as rivals move in to exploit the power vacuum .
noLabel	" The Times argued that higher education has been a closed shop in the UK for too long, that all over the world there are excellent universities run independently of the state, and that in its conception NCH is teaching by example .	The Economist wrote that there is a market for the idea because of the increasing number of qualified British students who fail to get into their university of choice, in part because of pressure on the top universities from the Office for Fair Access to increase the number of students from state schools; they added that "a 'toffs’ college' of well-heeled Oxbridge near-misses is a provocative concept.
noLabel	The November 2010 revisions of 2009 deficit and debt levels made accomplishment of the 2010 targets even harder, and indications signaled a recession harsher than originally feared .	In May 2011 it became evident that due to the severe economic crisis tax revenues were lower than expected, making it even harder for Greece to meet its fiscal goals . 
noLabel	For the Republicans, the South Carolina primary is considered a "firewall" to protect establishment favorites and frontrunners in the presidential nomination race, being designed to stop the momentum of insurgent candidates who could have received a boost from strong showings in Iowa and New Hampshire .	From its inception in 1980 through the election of 2008, the winner of the South Carolina Republican presidential primary has gone on to win the nomination . 
noLabel	During World War I, the United States and (at the beginning of the war only) Britain were the only countries with soldiers in Europe who did not provide condoms and promote their use .	By the end of the war, the American military had diagnosed almost 400,000 cases of syphilis and gonorrhea, a historic high . 
noLabel	Introducing GMOs and hybridized commercial seed to an area brings the risk of cross-pollination with local land races Therefore, GMOs pose a threat to the sustainability of land races and the ethnic heritage of cultures.	Once seed contains transgenic material, it becomes subject to the conditions of the seed company that owns the patent of the transgenic material .
noLabel	Economists have suggested that those who support protectionism ostensibly to further the interests of workers in least developed countries are in fact being disingenuous, seeking only to protect jobs in developed countries .	Additionally, workers in the least developed countries only accept jobs if they are the best on offer, as all mutually consensual exchanges must be of benefit to both sides, else they wouldn't be entered into freely.
noLabel	Although the full Gray Commission met publicly the following day, they were secretly joined in executive session by Governor Stanley .	Stanley announced that he was going to support a special session of the legislature, and that if the Gray Commission could not come up with any new proposals then he himself would craft bills for the General Assembly to consider .
noLabel	The two dominant political parties in Canada have historically been the Liberal Party of Canada and Conservative Party of Canada (or its predecessors), and as of the 2011 election the social-democratic New Democratic Party (NDP) has risen to prominence.	Smaller parties like the Quebec nationalist Bloc Québécois and the Green Party of Canada can exert their own influence over the political process.
noLabel	" The Roman Catholic Church's first recorded official statement on periodic abstinence to avoid pregnancy is from 1853, where a ruling of the church's Sacred Penitentiary addressed the topic of periodic abstinence to avoid pregnancy.	Distributed to confessors, the ruling stated that couples who had, on their own, begun the practice of periodic abstinence—especially if they had "legitimate reasons"—were not sinning by doing so . 
noLabel	According to the World Commission on Dams report (Dams And Development), when the reservoir is relatively large and no prior clearing of forest in the flooded area was undertaken, greenhouse gas emissions from the reservoir could be higher than those of a conventional oil-fired thermal generation plant .	For instance, In 1990, the impoundment behind the Balbina Dam in Brazil (inaugurated in 1987) had over 20 times the impact on global warming than would generating the same power from fossil fuels, due to the large area flooded per unit of electricity generated . 
noLabel	One American study among seniors over age 70 found that frequent volunteering was associated with reduced risk of dying compared with older persons who did not volunteer, regardless of physical health status .	Another study from Singapore reported that volunteering retirees had significantly better cognitive performance scores, fewer depressive symptoms, and better mental well-being and life satisfaction than non-volunteering retirees . 
noLabel	Monegan said that he had resisted persistent pressure from Palin, her husband, and her staff, including state Attorney General Talis J. Colberg, to fire Palin’s ex-brother-in-law, Alaska State Trooper Mike Wooten; Wooten was involved in a child custody battle with Palin’s sister after a bitter divorce that included an alleged death threat against Palin's father .	At one point Sarah and Todd Palin hired a private investigator to gather information, seeking to have Wooten officially disciplined .
noLabel	The National Association of Secretaries of State has endorsed a rotating regional primary system, with the country split into four regions: the West, the Midwest, the South, and the Northeast .	Unlike the Delaware Plan and the American Plan, the Rotating Regional Primary System would lower campaigning costs by restricting groups of primaries to single, contiguous regions. 
noLabel	Political philosophy professor Charles Blattberg argues that discussion of human rights, being abstract, demotivates people from upholding the values that rights are meant to affirm .	The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy gives particular attention to two types of criticisms: the one questioning universality of human rights and the one denying them objective ground .
noLabel	CBO estimated in January 2012 that raising the full retirement age for Social Security from 67 to 70 would reduce outlays by about 13%.	Raising the early retirement age from 62 to 64 has little impact, as those who wait longer to begin receiving benefits get a higher amount.
noLabel	A video game is an electronic game that involves human interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a video device.	The word video in video game traditionally referred to a raster display device, but following popularization of the term "video game", it now implies any type of display device.
noLabel	The suicide of a young Chinese boy in the Tianjin municipality has highlighted once more the growing dangers of game addiction, when those responsible do not understand or notice the risks of unhealthy play.	Xiao Yi was thirteen when he threw himself from the top of a twenty-four story tower block in his home town, leaving notes that spoke of his addiction and his hope of being reunited with fellow cyber-players in heaven.
noLabel	Debate prior to passage of the UN resolution reflected member states' differing positions on issues such as nuclear proliferation in the region and the appropriateness and justifiability of Israel's actions.	The Iraqi representative stated that "the motives behind the Israeli attack were to cover up Israel's possession of nuclear weapons and, more importantly, the determination not to allow the Arab nation to acquire scientific or technical knowledge.
noLabel	In response to registrars' concerns and media coverage of the issue, the Government established a "Bogus Marriage Task Force" in 2004 which included representatives from the Immigration Service, local government, the registration service and IND policy officials.	This proposed a new scheme to govern marriages where one or both parties were subject to immigration control and did not have entry clearance as a spouse or fiancé(e).
noLabel	Biomarkers of inflammation such as C-reactive protein, which are associated with chronic diseases, are reduced in active individuals relative to sedentary individuals, and the positive effects of exercise may be due to its anti-inflammatory effects.	The depression in the immune system following acute bouts of exercise may be one of the mechanisms for this anti-inflammatory effect .
noLabel	In 2006, in response to Illinois residents' concerns about unreported radioactive leaks by Exelon Corporation, Obama introduced a Senate bill to effect mandatory disclosure of such leaks.	In 2008, The New York Times, which had endorsed Hillary Rodham Clinton, charged that, in revising his bill, Obama had "removed language mandating prompt reporting and simply offered guidance to regulators" .
noLabel	Since God is the first cause of everything, he is the cause of even the free acts of men through predestination.	Determinism is deeply grounded in the system of Aquinas; things (with their source of becoming in God) are ordered from eternity as means for the realization of his end in himself.
noLabel	Some have criticised this system as exploitative; prominent university athletics programs are major commercial endeavors, and can easily rake in millions of dollars in profit during a successful season.	College athletes spend a great deal of time "working" for the university, and earn nothing from it at the time; basketball and football coaches, meanwhile, earn salaries that can compare with those of professional teams' coaches. 
noLabel	Unfortunately, it suffered from one major, fatal flaw: The RSAC system was for PC software only, therefore inapplicable to console releases.	This limitation, exacerbated by the 1995 debut of the explosively popular PlayStation console, rendered the RSAC system all but irrelevant, and in 1999 it quietly passed on. 
noLabel	But neither of these systems adequately addressed the demands of the U.S. Congress, and neither survived to see the close of 1994.	They did, however, provide a template for a third and somewhat more successful attempt at a comprehensive rating system that would satisfy videogaming critics: The Software Publishers Association's Recreational Software Advisory Council (RSAC).
noLabel	After several years with strong political backing and growth, 2009 was a year of refocus, consolidation, or retrenchment for many companies.	However, new wind power capacity installed in 2009 grew strongly with record installations of 38 GW worldwide, partly as a result of the rapid rise of Chinese manufacturing . 
noLabel	Ironically, the strength of schedule argument was often cited by those arguing that Utah did not deserve to be crowned National Champions.	In the 2011 season, the Utes began competing as members of the Pacific-12 Conference, one of the six conferences with an automatic BCS tie in. 
noLabel	Later, a worldwide network of Internet activist sites, under the umbrella name of Indymedia, was created "for the purpose of providing grassroots coverage of the WTO protests in Seattle" in 1999 .	Dorothy Kidd quotes Sheri Herndon in a July 2001 telephone interview about the role of the Internet in the anti-WTO protests: "The timing was right, there was a space, the platform was created, the Internet was being used, we could bypass the corporate media, we were using open publishing, we were using multimedia platforms.
noLabel	Sexual violence is any sexual act, attempt to obtain a sexual act, unwanted sexual comments or advances, or acts to traffic, or otherwise directed against a person’s sexuality using coercion, by any person regardless of their relationship to the victim, in any setting.	It includes rape, defined as the physically forced or otherwise coerced penetration of the vulva or anus with a penis, other body part or object . 
noLabel	With the increased role of Mexico in the trafficking and production of illicit drugs, the availability of drugs has increased locally since the 1980s .	In the decades before this period, consumption was not generalized – reportedly occurring mainly among persons of high socioeconomic status, intellectuals and artists . 
noLabel	In the 1970s, Gerard O'Neill suggested building space habitats that could support 30,000 times the carrying capacity of Earth using just the asteroid belt and that the Solar System as a whole could sustain current population growth rates for a thousand years .	Marshall Savage (1992, 1994) has projected a human population of five quintillion throughout the Solar System by 3000, with the majority in the asteroid belt .
noLabel	Due in part to the end of the Cold War and in part to new communications technologies that fostered an integrated global supply chain, nearly three billion working-age persons from China, India, the former Socialist economies in Eastern Europe, and other emerging markets have steadily been joining the global free market labor force since 1990.	According to an October 2011 report by the New America Foundation, "The integration of these high-savings, lower wage economies into the global economy..decisively shifted the balance of global supply and demand.
noLabel	A 2005 assessment by the International Institute for Strategic Studies concluded "if Iran threw caution to the wind, and sought a nuclear weapon capability as quickly as possible without regard for international reaction, it might be able to produce enough HEU for a single nuclear weapon by the end of this decade", assuming no technical problems.	The report concludes, however, that it is unlikely that Iran would flatly ignore international reactions and develop nuclear weapons anyway .
noLabel	One approach, suggested by writers such as Stephen D. Unwin, is to treat (particular versions of) theism and naturalism as though they were two hypotheses in the Bayesian sense, to list certain data (or alleged data), about the world, and to suggest that the likelihoods of these data are significantly higher under one hypothesis than the other .	Most of the arguments for, or against, the existence of God can be seen as pointing to particular aspects of the universe in this way.
noLabel	British women, if they married a foreign national, lost their British nationality on the assumption that they would take on that of their husband.	During World War 2 thousands of British women who married American GI’s lost their national status and were required to register with the police . 
noLabel	An upstream tailings dam consists of trapezoidal embankments being constructed on top but toe to crest of another, moving the crest further upstream.	This creates a relatively flat downstream side and a jagged upstream side which is supported by tailings slurry in the impoundment.
noLabel	According to Henriksson, the anti-drug appeals of the Reagan administration "created an environment in which many employers felt compelled to implement drug testing programs because failure to do so might be perceived as condoning drug use.	This fear was easily exploited by aggressive marketing and sales forces, who often overstated the value of testing and painted a bleak picture of the consequences of failing to use the drug testing product or service being offered.
noLabel	In Turkey, where the book had sold at least 6000 copies, a prosecutor launched a probe into whether The God Delusion was "an attack on holy values", following a complaint in November 2007.	If convicted, the Turkish publisher and translator, Erol Karaaslan, would have faced a prison sentence of inciting religious hatred and insulting religious values .
noLabel	Other Reformed groups, however, are at odds over the issue, as can be seen in recent works arguing that the practice of birth control has no legitimate Christian support.	(See for instance "The Christian Case against Contraception: Making the Case from Historical, Biblical, Systematic, and Practical Theology & Ethics" by Bryan C.
noLabel	Owning an apartment is also more convenient than owning a house as the general maintenance and landscaping is taken care of by the owner or body corporate.	This is particularly the case in regions with climate extremes, such as the long and snowy winters in the Nordic countries of northern Europe and most of Canada where there is much snow clearing work for house residents.
noLabel	In order to convict, accusation was required, and people didn’t usually enough proof to back up an accusation, as law basically required a confession, and there was always a chance that if there was not enough proof, the accuser would be charged with false accusations.	Even though the system was not foolproof, the church did produce a large number of institutions to inform the public of the law of sexual practice, and also had an extensive system of courts to deal with sexual misbehavior . 
noLabel	In education, "recess" is the North American term (known as "Lunch" or "break" in the UK and Ireland, sometimes "playlunch" or "little lunch" in Australia, or "interval" or "morning tea" in New Zealand) for a daily period, typically ten to thirty minutes, in elementary school where students are allowed to leave the school's interior to enter its adjacent outdoor playground, where they can play on recreational equipment, such as seesaws and swing sets, or engage in activities such as basketball, dodgeball, or four square.	Many middle schools also offer recess in an effort to provide students with a sufficient opportunity to consume quick snacks, communicate with their peers, visit the restroom, study, and/or other various activities.
noLabel	The controversial execution of Thomas Scott, a Protestant from Ontario, on Riel's orders and the furor that followed divided the new dominion along linguistic and religious lines.	While Manitoba was created as a bilingual province in 1870 as a solution to the issue, the tensions remained, and would surface again in the Northwest Rebellion in the 1880s, when Riel led another rebellion against Ottawa. 
noLabel	This will result in a monumental 50 state legal and political fight over how to re-budget to best take advantage of the federal legislation.	Many states will further reduce state funds for education to the 2005-06 minimum so these state resources can be used for other state priorities and the net gain for education will be far less than the total federal appropriation. 
noLabel	The former British Secretary of State for Health John Reid claimed that restrictions upon smoking in public places may lead to more smoking at home .	However, both the House of Commons Health Committee and the Royal College of Physicians disagreed, with the former finding no evidence to support Reid's claim after studying Ireland, and the latter finding that smoke-free households increased from 22% to 37% between 1996 and 2003 . 
noLabel	Studies have found that The New York Times coverage of worldwide human rights violations predominantly focuses on the human rights violations in nations where there is clear U.S. involvement, while having relatively little coverage of the human rights violations in other nations .	For example, the bloodiest war in recent time, involving eight nations and killing millions of civilians, was the Second Congo War, which was almost completely ignored by the media.
noLabel	Both amateur and professional sports attract spectators, both in person at the sport venue, and through broadcast mediums including radio, television and internet broadcast.	Both attendance in person and viewing remotely can incur a sometimes substantial charge, such as an entrance ticket, or pay-per-view television broadcast. 
noLabel	The Department of Nuclear Sciences and Applications focuses on the use of non-power nuclear and isotope techniques to help IAEA Member States in the areas of water, energy, health, biodiversity, and agriculture .	The Department of Technical Cooperation provides direct assistance to IAEA Member States, through national, regional, and inter-regional projects through training, expert missions, scientific exchanges, and provision of equipment .
noLabel	Experts in fetal development provide markedly different assessments of the kind and degree of pain (if any) experienced by the fetus (see Fetal pain).	Although in the second and third trimesters the nervous system is largely in place, the level of consciousness or awareness of the fetus is a matter of conjecture.
noLabel	2009) - The Sixth Circuit affirmed a denial of the petitioner's motion to vacate convictions for possession of machine guns and possession of unregistered firearms, in violation of and , respectively.	The court observed that Heller explicitly excluded from Second Amendment protection any weapons "not typically possessed by law-abiding citizens for lawful purposes."
noLabel	Murray puts video games in the context of the Holodeck, a fictional piece of technology from Star Trek, arguing for the video game as a medium in which we get to become another person, and to act out in another world .	This image of video games received early widespread popular support, and forms the basis of films such as Tron, eXistenZ and The Last Starfighter. 
noLabel	The vegetation at this layer generally consists of shade-tolerant shrubs, herbs, small trees, and large woody vines which climb into the trees to capture sunlight.	Only about 5% of sunlight breaches the canopy to arrive at the understory causing true understory plants to seldom grow to 3 m (10&nbsp;feet).
noLabel	Referees will stop the bout if a boxer is seriously injured, if one boxer is significantly dominating the other or if the score is severely imbalanced .	Amateur bouts which end this way may be noted as "RSC" (referee stopped contest) with notations for an outclassed opponent (RSCO), outscored opponent (RSCOS), injury (RSCI) or head injury (RSCH).
noLabel	As the Ministry's name implies, propaganda did not carry the negative connotations that it does today (or that it did in the Allied countries); how-to manuals were openly distributed by that same ministry explaining the craft of effective propaganda.	The Ministry also acted as a central control-point for all media, issuing orders as to what stories could be run and what stories would be suppressed.
noLabel	Burmese, the mother tongue of the Bamar and official language of Burma, is related to Tibetan and to the Chinese languages .	It is written in a script consisting of circular and semi-circular letters, which were adapted from the Mon script, which in turn was developed from a southern Indian script in the 8th century.
noLabel	The worst recession in recent decades, in terms of lost output, occurred during the 2008 financial crisis, when GDP fell by 5.0% from the spring of 2008 to the spring of 2009.	Other significant recessions took place in 1957–58, when GDP fell 3.7%, following the 1973 oil crisis, with a 3.1% fall from late 1973 to early 1975, and in the 1981–82 recession, when GDP dropped by 2.9% .
noLabel	Barely used nerves and muscles, such as the plantaris muscle of the foot, that are missing in part of the human population and are routinely harvested as spare parts if needed during operations.	Another example is the muscles that move the ears, which some people can learn to control to a degree, but serve no purpose in any case (, p. 328). 
noLabel	When James I of England, a staunch anti-smoker and the author of a A Counterblaste to Tobacco, tried to curb the new trend by enforcing a 4000% tax increase on tobacco in 1604 it was unsuccessful, as suggested by the presence of around 7,000 tobacco outlets in London by the early 17th century.	From this point on for some centuries, several administrations with drew from efforts at discouragement and instead turned tobacco trade and cultivation into sometimes lucrative government monopolies. 
noLabel	During the course of collating evidence for the enquiry the HAC visited the Red Cross centre at Sangatte near Calais and saw for themselves the numbers of would be refugees waiting to try and enter the UK clandestinely.	The issues were pushed higher up the political agenda by an awful tragedy that that took place on 19 June that year when 58 Chinese people were found dead in the back of a sealed lorry at Dover.
noLabel	A study by the United Kingdom Gambling Commission, the "British Gambling Prevalence Survey 2007", found that approximately 0.6% of the adult population had problem gambling issues, the same percentage as in 1999.	The highest prevalence of problem gambling was found among those who participated in spread betting (14.7%), fixed odds betting terminals (11.2%) and betting exchanges (9.8%) . 
noLabel	There are some threads that are found within the culture of the service at all times in the reports and recollection of its staff.	There is a distinct pride in uncovering deception and safeguarding, as they saw it, the public purse and domestic employment market.
noLabel	Paul believes that the Veterans Administration should not be building more hospitals, and that VA hospitals should instead be phased out.	He believes that government should pay to treat veterans in private hospitals, arguing they will get better care more cost-effectively .
noLabel	In the UK, Physical Education (PE) is compulsory in state schools until the age of 16 – that is, that sports are compulsory for as long as education is compulsory.	Every year, more and more parents complain to their children’s schools about PE; they believe that their children shouldn't have to participate in physical activity if they don’t want to and that it is not a conducive educational activity or environment.
noLabel	By late 1985, Rangel was in a six-person race to become the next House Majority Whip, the third-highest ranked position in the House and for the first time up for election by the members rather than appointment by the Speaker .	By October 1986 the race was heating up, with Rangel the underdog coming close to Representative Tony Coelho from California through use of his personal skills and Rangel arguing that the Democratic leadership needed better regional balance .
noLabel	Compromising is where a voter gives a first or other preference to a candidate, not because they necessarily support them, but as a way of avoiding the election of a candidate who they dislike even more.	The compromising tactic is sometimes effective because runoff voting eliminates many candidates in the first round, and these often include a candidate who might have received an absolute majority of votes had the candidate been permitted to participate in the second round.
noLabel	The ASEAN Football Championship is a biennial Football competition organised by the ASEAN Football Federation, accredited by FIFA and contested by the national teams of Southeast Asia nations.	It was inaugurated in 1996 as Tiger Cup, but after Asia Pacific Breweries terminated the sponsorship deal, "Tiger" was renamed "ASEAN".
noLabel	After all, the only reason we regard performance enhancement as 'dirty' is because we have rarely been encouraged to question the present policies.	Many of the products on the banned list are available over the counter and most are accessible with a prescription.They are no dirtier than the kind of products the nation is habituated to taking every day.
noLabel	Stanley immediately proposed yet another new plan which automatically cut off funds to any or all portions of a school district which integrated .	Under the new Stanley plan, however, a school board could petition to have the schools reopened, although this would require that the Assembly take over the district, the governor to act as the Assembly's agent, and the governor to implement a segregationist pupil assignment plan .
noLabel	Perhaps the most prominent and notable form of American racism (other than imperialism against Native Americans) began with the institution of slavery, during which Africans were enslaved and treated as property.	Prior to the institution of slavery, early African and non-white immigrants to the Colonies had been regarded with equal status, serving as sharecroppers alongside whites.
noLabel	That same year, the video game company Mystique released three unlicensed games for the Atari 2600; Beat 'Em & Eat 'Em, Custer's Revenge, and Bachelor Party.	The games were noted for their negative reception, particularly Custer's Revenge for its depiction of (what was perceived as) General Custer raping Native American women.
noLabel	Then OMB Director Peter Orszag stated in a November 2009 interview: "It's very popular to complain about the deficit, but then many of the specific steps that you could take to address it are unpopular.	And that is the fundamental challenge that we are facing, and that we need help both from the American public and Congress in addressing."
noLabel	A corollary of this principle is that the granting of asylum is tantamount to accusing (or at least strongly implying that) the nation an asylee fled from is illegally persecuting the asylee, and thus the granting of asylum by one state to a citizen or citizens of a particular state may be considered an unfriendly deed by the country the asylee(s) fled from, and retaliation, through the exercise of the right of reciprocity or the right of reprisal may occur.	For example, the Government of Cuba has granted asylum to a number of persons that the Federal Government of the United States considers domestic terrorists or criminals.
noLabel	Hundreds of riot police and government troops armed with rifles and teargas launchers are said to be back on the streets of Rangoon (Yangon).	They have surrounded the Shwedagon and Sule Pagodas, the two main focal points of peaceful demonstrations led by Buddhist monks in September.
noLabel	Locations such as submarine, surface, airburst, or exo-atmospheric determine how much energy is produced at blast and how much as radiation.	In general, denser media around the bomb, like water, absorb more energy, and create more powerful shockwaves while at the same time limiting the area of its effect. 
noLabel	At its peak, Sanctuary involved over 500 congregations across the country that, by declaring themselves official “sanctuaries,” committed to providing shelter, material goods and often legal advice to Central American refugees.	Various denominations were involved, including the Lutherans, United Church of Christ, Roman Catholics, Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptists, Jews, Unitarian Universalists, Quakers, and Mennonites. 
noLabel	Being responsible for a child can dictate a person’s decisions on where to live, what to do in their free time, and what jobs to take .	There are opportunities that are necessary to turn down when one is held accountable for another person’s well being, which is the perfect definition of the care penalty. 
noLabel	The flotilla was publicly opposed by the United States, France, the United Kingdom, Turkey, Canada, the Middle East Quartet (consisting of the European Union, Russia, the United Nations, and the United States), and United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-moon.	It was publicly supported by the Hamas administration of the Gaza Strip whose leaders asked countries to support the flotilla, saying that the blockade was a crime, and that claims that the blockade had ended were wrong. 
noLabel	The report also cited other studies to show that having sex even a few times a week may be associated with the following: improved sense of smell; reduced risk of heart disease; weight loss and overall fitness; reduced depression (in women); the relief or lessening of pain; less frequent colds and flu; better bladder control; better teeth; and improved prostate function.	The report cited a study published by the British Journal of Urology International which indicated that men in their 20s can reduce by a third their chance of getting prostate cancer by ejaculating more than five times a week .
noLabel	Within a month of the 2010 midterm elections, Obama announced a compromise deal with the Congressional Republican leadership that included a temporary, two-year extension of the 2001 and 2003 income tax rates, a one-year payroll tax reduction, continuation of unemployment benefits, and a new rate and exemption amount for estate taxes .	The compromise overcame opposition from some in both parties, and the resulting $858 billion Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 passed with bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress before Obama signed it on December 17, 2010 .
noLabel	The penetration of intermittent renewables in most power grids is low, but wind generates 11% of electric energy in Spain and Portugal, 9% in the Republic of Ireland, and 7% in Germany .	Wind provides nearly 20% of the electricity generated in Denmark, however this percentage forces Denmark to import and export large amounts of energy to and from the EU grid, to balance supply with demand . 
noLabel	Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who was in Canada during the incident, expressed regret for the loss of life, and said that the event represents a clear case of self-defense of the IDF soldiers, he expressed his "full backing" for the military raid and cancelled a scheduled trip to the United States to meet with U.S. President Barack Obama.	A spokesman for the Prime Minister was quoted as saying that Netanyahu, "feels he has to be home to deal with this.
noLabel	The address that the PAC used when it registered in 2005, and the address listed on its website (as of early June 2006) is a three-story, million-dollar Capitol Hill townhouse.	Willis-Leon said she works from her home in Las Vegas, that the PAC used the townhouse address only in its initial stages, and that it maintains no office there .
noLabel	After making contact with the target, the lead hand is retracted quickly to resume a guard position in front of the face.	The jab is recognised as the most important punch in a boxer's arsenal because it provides a fair amount of its own cover and it leaves the least amount of space for a counter punch from the opponent.
noLabel	As a method of birth control, male condoms have the advantage of being inexpensive, easy to use, having few side effects, and of offering protection against sexually transmitted diseases.	With proper knowledge and application technique—and use at every act of intercourse—women whose partners use male condoms experience a 2% per-year pregnancy rate with perfect use and a 15% per-year pregnancy rate with typical use . 
noLabel	The increasing popularity of devotion to the Virgin Mary (the mother of Jesus) secured maternal virtue as a central cultural theme of Catholic Europe.	Art historian Kenneth Clarke wrote that the 'Cult of the Virgin' in the early 12th century "had taught a race of tough and ruthless barbarians the virtues of tenderness and compassion" . 
noLabel	Opponents mobilized over 450 groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and National Association of Realtors with letter writing campaigns against the proposed restrictions.	Lobbyist Howard Marlowe argued in a "stern letter" that the restriction on gift-giving to federal employees would create "fear of retribution for political donations": .
noLabel	The Safe Harbor program addresses this issue in a unique way: rather than a blanket law imposed on all organisations in the United States, a voluntary program is enforced by the FTC.	U.S. organisations which register with this program, having self-assessed their compliance with a number of standards, are "deemed adequate" for the purposes of Article 25.
noLabel	In Mexico, the term "high school" usually corresponds to preparatoria or bachillerato, comprising grades 10–12, when the student's age is 15 to 18 years old.	It may prepare the student with basic training for a job, and is the required step before enrolment into a college or university. 
noLabel	Wind power, as an alternative to fossil fuels, is plentiful, renewable, widely distributed, clean, produces no greenhouse gas emissions during operation, and uses little land.	In operation, the overall cost per unit of energy produced is similar to the cost for new coal and natural gas installations .
noLabel	These units, along with their database, were abolished as part of the Casework Programme on the assumption that their functions would somehow be taken up by the caseworkers within the massive new teams.	What actually happened was that these specialists were diverted to deal with the asylum crisis that arose as the result of staff lay-offs and the failure of the Casework Programme to deliver its promised IT.
noLabel	Indeed, with academic institutions producing Ph.D.s in greater numbers than the number of tenure-track professorial positions they intend to create, there is little question that administrators are cognizant of the economic effects of this arrangement.	The sociologist Stanley Aronowitz wrote: "Basking in the plenitude of qualified and credentialed instructors, many university administrators see the time when they can once again make tenure a rare privilege, awarded only to the most faithful and to those whose services are in great demand" . 
noLabel	In addition to being much smaller than the oil sands deposits in Alberta, Canada, the U.S. oil sands are hydrocarbon wet, whereas the Canadian oil sands are water wet .	As a result of this difference, extraction techniques for the Utah oil sands will be different than those used for the Alberta oil sands.
noLabel	The Fairness Doctrine has been strongly opposed by prominent conservatives and libertarians who view it as an attack on First Amendment rights and property rights.	Editorials in The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Times in 2005 and 2008 said that Democratic attempts to bring back the Fairness Doctrine have been made largely in response to conservative talk radio . 
noLabel	did not adopt a constitution at the Revolution, but rather amended their Charter to remove all references to the British Government.	As a result, the Congregational Church continued to be established, and Yale College, at that time a Congregational institution, received grants from the State until Connecticut adopted a constitution in 1818 partly because of this issue.
noLabel	Some 10,000 East German athletes were administered dangerous steroids and designer drugs, the products of rogue doctors, toxicologists and pharmacists -- all under the watchful eye of a government determined to win gold at any cost.	The experiments, secret for some 30 years, resulted in criminal trials in 1998 and jail sentences for doctors and trainers found guilty of doing bodily harm to minors.
noLabel	Today medical studies have proven that smoking tobacco is among the leading causes of many diseases such as lung cancer, heart attacks, COPD, erectile dysfunction and can also lead to birth defects.	The inherent health hazards of smoking have caused many countries to institute high taxes on tobacco products and anti-smoking campaigns are launched every year in an attempt to curb tobacco smoking.
noLabel	The root of the Committee's power is its ability to disburse funds, and thus as the federal budget has risen, so has the power of the Appropriations Committee.	The first budget of the U.S., in 1789, was for $639,000—a hefty sum for the time, but a much smaller amount relative to the economy than the federal budget would later become.
noLabel	In an effort to strengthen the Stanley plan's interposition elements, the bill also authorized circuit courts to file injunctions against any school district which violated the assignment decrees—which invited the prospect of pitting state courts against federal ones .	Delegate Thomson introduced a bill to establish a seven-member Assembly committee to investigate any group seeking to influence public opinion in the state, teacher quality, uniformity of courses and curriculum in the public schools, and the effects of integration on public education . 
noLabel	The United Nations Human Rights Council, in a resolution sponsored by Pakistan and Muslim countries, condemned Israeli military actions, expressing "shock at the bombardment of civilian homes in Gaza."	The resolution also urged all concerned parties, including Palestinian militants, to respect international human rights and humanitarian law and refrain from violence against civilian populations .
noLabel	Staphylococcal infections are a growing problem in hospitals for any operation, and MSSA (methicillin susceptible)  strains of s.aureus have affected neonatal nurseries.	Some research has found a statistically significant correlation between golden staph (Staphylococcus aureus) infections and whether an infant has been circumcised Boys have been found to be far more susceptible to golden staph infections than girls and methicillin susceptible strains (MSSA) have infected circumcision wounds.
noLabel	Progress was initially notable at a state or national level, particularly the pioneering smoke-free public places legislation introduced in New York City in 2002 and the Republic of Ireland in 2004, and the UK efforts to encapsulate the crucial elements of tobacco control activity in the 2004 'six-strand approach' (to deliver upon the joined-up approach set out in the white paper 'Smoking Kills' ) and its local equivalent, the 'seven hexagons of tobacco control' .	This broadly organised set of health research and policy development bodies then formed the Framework Convention Alliance to negotiate and support the first international public health treaty, the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, or FCTC for short. 
noLabel	The most well-known such incident involves the Columbine High School massacre in 1999 which was perpetrated by a pair of teenagers known to be great fans of violent first-person shooter, Doom.	This fear has often been played into by members of the media and as such the topic remains a controversial one today.
noLabel	The doctrine can be used, for example, so a right is upheld even when a government threatens to violate it with new technology, as long as the essential right remains the same; but the authors claim that the courts have used the doctrine to "create new rights."	As an example, the authors note that the Charter right against self-incrimination has been extended to cover scenarios in the justice system that had previously been unregulated by self-incrimination rights in other Canadian laws . 
noLabel	The Gaza flotilla raid was a military operation by Israel against six ships of the "Gaza Freedom Flotilla" on 31 May 2010 in international waters of the Mediterranean Sea.	The flotilla, organized by the Free Gaza Movement and the Turkish Foundation for Human Rights and Freedoms and Humanitarian Relief (İHH), was carrying humanitarian aid and construction materials, with the intention of breaking the Israeli-Egyptian blockade of the Gaza Strip. 
noLabel	|- Foreign Ministry issued a statement saying "We condemn the excessive use of force by Israel, and we condemn terrorist acts by Hamas against Israeli territory, including the launching of rockets".	The statement also expressed "deep concern" over civilian casualties in Gaza and called for greater humanitarian aid to Palestinians living there .
noLabel	Countries with high forest cover can be expected to be at early stages of the FT. GDP per capita captures the stage in a country’s economic development, which is linked to the pattern of natural resource use, including forests.	The choice of forest cover and GDP per capita also fits well with the two key scenarios in the FT: . 
noLabel	Its constitution formally came into force on the first World Health Day on 7 April 1948, when it was ratified by the 26th member state .	The first meeting World Health Assembly finished on 24 July 1948, having secured a budget of US$5&nbsp;million (then GBP£1,250,000) for the 1949 year.
noLabel	The Balfour Declaration of 1926 gave complete self-government to the Dominions, effectively creating a system whereby a single monarch operated independently in each separate Dominion.	The concept was solidified by the Statute of Westminster 1931, which has been likened to "a treaty among the Commonwealth countries" . 
noLabel	On 20 October 2003, the families of Aaron Hamel and Kimberly Bede, two young people shot by teens William and Josh Buckner (who in statements to investigators claimed their actions were inspired by GTA III) filed a US$246 million lawsuit against publishers Rockstar Games, Take-Two Interactive Software, retailer Wal-Mart, and PlayStation 2 manufacturer Sony Computer Entertainment America .	Rockstar and its parent company, Take-Two, filed for dismissal of the lawsuit, stating in U.S. District Court on 29 October 2003 that the "ideas and concepts as well as the 'purported psychological effects' on the Buckners are protected by the First Amendment's free-speech clause".
noLabel	The UNESCO Convention is a practical and legally binding tool enabling governments to align domestic policy with the World Anti-Doping Code, thus harmonizing the rules governing anti-doping in sport.	It formalizes governments' commitment to the fight against doping in sport, including by facilitating doping controls and supporting national testing programs; encouraging the establishment of "best practice" in the labelling, marketing, and distribution of products that might contain prohibited substances; withholding financial support from those who engage in or support doping; taking measures against manufacturing and trafficking; encouraging the establishment of codes of conduct for professions relating to sport and anti-doping; and funding education and research. 
noLabel	Capital investment, which was in decline year-on-year since the final quarter of 2006, matched the 1957–58 post war record in the first quarter of 2009.	The pace of collapse in residential investment picked up speed in the first quarter of 2009, dropping 23.2% year-on-year, nearly four percentage points faster than in the previous quarter. 
noLabel	The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention indicates that 15% of juvenile arrests occurred for forcible rape in 2006, and 12% were clearance (resolved by an arrest) .	The total number of juvenile arrests in 2006 for forcible rape was 3,610 with 2% being female and 36% being under the age of 15 years old .
noLabel	Now an accepted element of the public health arena, tobacco control polices and activity are seen to have been effective in those administrations which have implemented them in a co-ordinated fashion; England, for instance, met its target to reduce its adult smoking prevalence to 21% or lower by 2010 through such an approach.	Direct and indirect opposition from the tobacco industry continue, for instance through the tobacco industry's efforts at misinformation via suborned scientists  and 'astroturf' counter-advocacy operations such as FOREST.
noLabel	In 2002, a three judge panel on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held that classroom recitation of the Pledge of Allegiance in a California public school was unconstitutional, even when students were not compelled to recite it, due to the inclusion of the phrase "under God."	In reaction to the case, Elk Grove Unified School District v. Newdow, both houses of Congress passed measures reaffirming their support for the pledge, and condemning the panel's ruling .
noLabel	If the Israeli commandos were acting on behalf of the government of Israel in killing the activists on the ships, Israel would be in a position of war with Turkey, and the act would fall under international jurisdiction as a war crime.	If, on the other hand, the killings were not authorised Israeli military action, they were acts of murder under Turkish jurisdiction and if Israel does not consider itself in a position of war with Turkey, then it must hand over the commandos involved for trial in Turkey under Turkish law.After being later told that the Mavi Marmara may have been sailing under a Comoran flag, Murray reiterated that Israel's attack was illegal regardless of what flag the vessel was sailing under . 
noLabel	It is uncertain what can be interpreted as "physical desecration", as it may or may not require that the flag actually be physically damaged, or even merely made to appear damaged.	It is also unclear whether "virtual flag desecration" (which could be defined as an artistic depiction of flag desecration, a computerized simulation of flag desecration, or burning any object which has a flag on it) would be subject to the amendment.
noLabel	"There is a long-held belief that sport embodies the values of fair play and honesty that we want our children exposed to," adds Fahey.	"Perhaps we need to reassess that belief; maybe we should consider whether sport may, in fact, be a corrupting influence, especially the closer an athlete gets to elite level."
noLabel	An article on the leaked documents in Science magazine commented on these sources, "Taking the WikiLeaks data into account, IBC now estimates that at least 150,000 have died violently during the war, 80% of them civilians.	That falls within the range produced by an Iraq household survey conducted by the World Health Organization—and further erodes the credibility of a 2006 study published in The Lancet that estimated over 600,000 violent deaths for the first 3 years of the war."
noLabel	In 1984 the reform of the Regulations of Permanent Residence Registration marked an increase in the migration of rural Chinese workers.	As the restrictions on residence became more lenient, less penalizing, and permitted people to travel to find employment, more women engaged in migrant labor .
noLabel	Thus, the structure of the school-day consists of three lesson blocks, broken up by two intervals: recess and lunch respectively.There must be at least an hours worth of "recess" or "free period" a week.	In Queensland, the short morning break is generally referred to as "little lunch" and the longer lunchtime break as "big lunch". 
noLabel	The consequence of this loss is the disorder and maiming of man's nature, which shows itself in "ignorance; malice, moral weakness, and especially in concupiscentia, which is the material principle of original sin".	The course of thought here is as follows: when the first man transgressed the order of his nature appointed by nature and grace, he (and with him the human race) lost this order.
noLabel	Analysts believe that because the Court agreed to hear this case, there are unanswered questions between the protection of free speech from the First Amendment, and the legal enforcement of protecting minors from unprotected free speech such as through restrictions on the sales of pornography to minors .	Just a week prior to the acceptance of the centiorari, in United States v. Stevens the Court overturned another law that sought restrictions on depictions of animal cruelty, which some analysts felt would reflect the Court's position to likely overturn the violent video game law . 
noLabel	Unemployment is argued to be "beneficial" to the people who are not unemployed in the sense that it averts inflation, which itself has damaging effects, by providing (in Marxian terms) a reserve army of labour, that keeps wages in check.	However the direct connection between full local employment and local inflation has been disputed by some due to the recent increase in international trade that supplies low-priced goods even while local employment rates rise to full employment . 
noLabel	In France, Nationalism was originally a left-wing and Republican ideology, as the French exception consisted in it being a Republican regime .	Nationalism became a main trait of the right wing after the period of boulangisme and, moreover, of the far-right after the Dreyfus Affair .
noLabel	"The cost to Danish businesses was around 134 million euros ($170m), when compared with the same period last year, the statistics showed.	" However, the Guardian newspaper in the UK also reported, "While Danish milk products were dumped in the Middle East, fervent rightwing Americans started buying Bang & Olufsen stereos and Lego.
noLabel	The simple act of increasing the number of RBCs in blood raises its viscosity, which can cause it to clot or coagulate more readily .	This increases the chances of heart attack, stroke, and pulmonary embolism, which has been seen in cases where there is too much blood reintroduced into the blood stream.
noLabel	CD-ROM drives were first seen in this generation, as add-ons for the PC Engine in 1988 and the Mega Drive in 1991.	Basic 3D graphics entered the mainstream with flat-shaded polygons enabled by additional processors in game cartridges like Virtua Racing and Star Fox. 
noLabel	Restricting voters to a maximum number of preferences is more likely to exhaust ballots if voters do not anticipate which candidates will finish in the top two.	This can encourage voters to vote more tactically, by ranking at least one a candidate they think is likely to win. 
noLabel	The fact that Chinese individuals (some of whom were classified as Coloureds under Apartheid, others as honorary white), who were also submitted to legal discrimination prior to 1990 (but exempt from the Group Areas Act as of 1984 when the Group Areas Amendment Act was promulgated), have been excluded as beneficiaries of black empowerment, has led to a renewed media debate regarding the definition of “black” in current legislation .	As of 2008, Chinese people have been reclassified as "black" after The Chinese Association of South Africa took the South African government to court and won . 
noLabel	The college coaches involved in the coaches poll were contractually obligated to award their organization's trophy and first place votes to the winner of the BCS championship game, LSU.	However, for the first time in the history of the BCS Championship Series, the BCS Champion was not a unanimous #1 in the final Coaches Poll.
noLabel	At this point, however, the exact mechanism was still not known: the "classical" hydrogen bomb, whereby the heat of the fission bomb would be used to ignite the fusion material, seemed highly unworkable.	However, an insight by Los Alamos mathematician Stanislaw Ulam showed that the fission bomb and the fusion fuel could be in separate parts of the bomb, and that radiation of the fission bomb could first work in a way to compress the fusion material before igniting it. 
noLabel	According to this account, Igor Kurchatov and Lavrenty Beria used the information primarily as a "check" against their own scientists' work and did not liberally share the information with them, distrusting both their own scientists as well as the espionage information.	Later scholarship has also shown that the decisive brake on early Soviet development was not problems in weapons design but, as in the Manhattan Project, the difficulty in procuring fissile materials, especially since the Soviet Union had no uranium deposits known when it began its program (unlike the United States). 
noLabel	It is commonly used in Venezuela (where the extra-heavy oil is at 50 degrees Celsius), and also in the Wabasca, Alberta Oil Sands, the southern part of the Cold Lake Oil Sands and the Peace River Oil Sands.	It has the advantage of being cheap and the disadvantage that it recovers only 5-6% of the oil in place . 
noLabel	Yet the most popular, and at the same time most stigmatized, use of psychedelics in Western culture has been associated with the search for direct religious experience, enhanced creativity, personal development, and "mind expansion".	The use of psychedelic drugs was a major element of the 1960s counterculture, where it became associated with various social movements and a general atmosphere of rebellion and strife between generations. 
noLabel	SolarPACES states that by using thermal energy storage systems the operating periods of solar thermal power (CSP) stations can be extended to meet baseload needs .	The IEA CSP Technology Roadmap (2010) suggests that "in the sunniest countries, CSP can be expected to become a competitive source of bulk power in peak and intermediate loads by 2020, and of base-load power by 2025 to 2030" . 
noLabel	Most private universities had a poor reputation and were known for making it easy for students to enter and also to get high grades.	In 2007, several of those private universities or their heirs, were investigated and faced compulsory closing (for example, the infamous Independente University and Internacional University closings, and the Moderna University scandal) or official criticism with recommendations that the state-managed investigation proposed for improving their quality and avoid termination.
noLabel	For example, during the Canadian army’s confrontation with Mohawk warriors at Oka, Que, there were restrictions on the media including the cutoff of cellular telephones.	In 1970, during the October crisis in Quebec, the War Measures Act was imposed and the media were not allowed to publish the manifestos of the Front de Liberation du Quebec and even some journalists were jailed .
noLabel	There is generally legislation requiring that the odds in gaming devices are statistically random, to prevent manufacturers from making some high-payoff results impossible.	Since these high-payoffs have very low probability, a house bias can quite easily be missed unless checking the odds carefully .
noLabel	††Although the Mountain West and WAC do not automatically qualify for BCS bowls, some of their appearances are not considered at-large bids because of the rule allowing the highest ranked conference champion from a non-automatic-qualifying conference to receive an automatic bid if they are in the top 12.	Boise State's bid in the 2010 Fiesta Bowl is the only time a team from a non-automatic-qualifying conference has received an at-large bid as TCU received the automatic bid in 2010. 
noLabel	Benoit Denizet-Lewis, a fellow at the Alicia Patterson Foundation, found in his study of casual sex among adolescents that many girls believe they can have a purely sexual experience with no emotional ties, and they believed it was sexist to assume otherwise.	However, he believes that both the girls and the boys who were hooking up often really were depressed and didn't feel very good about themselves .
noLabel	Attitudes by legislators towards immigration control appear to have been rather disjointed in that the efforts made to extend controls at the border contrasted sharply with the lack of powers to do anything about those who evaded them.	It may be that this can be explained by a private reluctance to extend controls to white Commonwelath citizens while pandering to the public disquiet about increased afro-Caribbean and Asian migration and evidence for this is given in previous sections.
noLabel	Throughout most of its history, the FCC has been a relatively invisible part of the U.S. government, known mostly to industry stakeholders, lobbyists, and officials .	With the general public not knowing its practices and responsibilities, this has given a tremendous advantage to those knowledgeable of the FCC’s practices and organized enough to influence them .
noLabel	A similar concern voiced by critics of lobbying is that Washington politics has become dominated by elites, and that it is an "insider's game" excluding regular citizens and which favors entrenched firms .	Individuals generally can not afford to lobby, and critics question whether corporations with "deeper pockets" should have greater power than regular persons .
noLabel	It was beyond history, beyond memory .We are deeply saddened by the behaviour of those who in the course of history have caused these children of yours to suffer, and asking your forgiveness we wish to commit ourselves to genuine brotherhood with the people of the Covenant .In October 2003, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) issued a statement congratulating John Paul II on entering the 25th year of his papacy.	In January 2005, John Paul II became the first Pope in history known to receive a priestly blessing from a rabbi, when Rabbis Benjamin Blech, Barry Dov Schwartz, and Jack Bemporad visited the Pontiff at Clementine Hall in the Apostolic Palace . 
noLabel	The belief "that no one should be forcibly prevented from acting in any way he chooses provided his acts are not invasive of the free acts of others" has become one of the basic principles of libertarian politics .	The harm principle was first fully articulated by the English thinker John Stuart Mill (1806–1873) in the first chapter of On Liberty (1859), where he argued that:
noLabel	The player's odds for at least one win in those 16 rolls has not increased given a series of losses; his odds have decreased because he has fewer iterations left to win.	In other words, the previous losses in no way contribute to the odds of the remaining attempts, but there are fewer remaining attempts to gain a win, which results in a lower probability of obtaining it. 
noLabel	“Advertising has an “agenda setting function” which is the ability, with huge sums of money, to put consumption as the only item on the agenda.	In the battle for a share of the public conscience this amounts to non-treatment (ignorance) of whatever is not commercial and whatever is not advertised for.
noLabel	Switzerland built an extensive network of fallout shelters, not only through extra hardening of government buildings such as schools, but also through a building regulation that ensured that all residential building built after 1968 contained a nuclear shelter able to withstand a blast from a 50 megaton explosion at a distance of 700 metres.	Coupled with this, there was the legal requirement for all supermarkets to store at least one year's supply of canned goods, etc., in blast-proof bunkers in the mountains, along with the requirement of one year's supply of oil; civilians were required to store at least three weeks of food stuffs in their own shelter. 
noLabel	36 wind turbines with 12 MW and an annual total of 18 million kW of work hours had been set up between New Year's Day and New Year's Eve .	After 1996, there were, only in exceptional cases, economic conditions for individual projects, including the wind park in Zurndorf with six plants. 
noLabel	In 1996, the United States passed a law banning states from offering residency benefits to unauthorized immigrants that they didn’t then also offer to every U.S. citizen.	This basically made it so that states could not offer in-state tuition to unauthorized immigrants, even if they technically qualified based on residency status.
noLabel	The Guardian said that "the New York Times, Washington Post and other papers were accused by web publications and some bloggers of downplaying the extent to which the documents revealed US complicity in torture and provided evidence that politicians in Washington "lied" about the failures of the US military mission" .	The Guardian had reported that "fresh evidence that US soldiers handed over detainees to a notorious Iraqi torture squad has emerged in army logs published by WikiLeaks", and Glenn Greenwald of Salon.com commented that "media outlets around the world prominently highlighted this revelation, but not The New York Times", calling their coverage of the document leak "subservient" to the Pentagon, and criticising them for what he called a "gossipy, People Magazine-style 'profile' of Assange" .
noLabel	Multicultural educators seek to substantially reform schools to give diverse students an equal chance in school, in the job market, and in contributing to building healthy communities .	one of the leaders in the field of multicultural education, describes five dimensions of multicultural education: (1) content integration, (2) the knowledge construction process, (3) prejudice reduction, (4) an equity pedagogy, and (5) an empowering school culture and social structure. 
noLabel	Before German reunification in 1990, citizens of West Berlin were exempt from the draft as West Berlin formally did not belong to the FRG.	Many young men moved to Berlin immediately upon their high school graduation in order to avoid the draft entirely, and thus did not serve in either the military or in an alternative service. 
noLabel	During the Salvadoran civil war, death squads achieved notoriety when far-right vigilantes assassinated Archbishop Óscar Romero for his social activism in March 1980.	In December 1980, three American nuns, Ita Ford, Dorothy Kazel, and Maura Clarke, and a lay worker, Jean Donovan, were raped and murdered by a military unit later found to have been acting on specific orders.
noLabel	The second requirement was that Greece needed to implement another demanding austerity package in order to bring its budget deficit into sustainable territory.	The third and final requirement was that a majority of the Greek politicians should sign an agreement guaranteeing their continued support for the new austerity package, even after the elections in April 2012 . 
noLabel	The results using a sub-sample of schools with random lottery results found very large positive effects in both math and ELA scores for charter schools, including 0.16 and 0.19 standard deviations in middle and high school ELA scores respectively and 0.36 and 0.17 standard deviations in middle and high school math scores respectively.	Boston’s pilot schools, however, showed a concerning negative effect in middle school math and ELA and a slightly positive effect in high school.
noLabel	There are three perspectives regarding the nature of gusukus: 1) a holy place, 2) dwellings encircled by stones, 3) a castle of a leader of people.	In this period, porcelain trade between Okinawa and other countries became busy, and Okinawa became an important relay point in eastern-Asian trade.
noLabel	However, in the subsequent decisions of Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Group of Boston, the Court ruled that a group may exclude people from membership if their presence would affect the group's ability to advocate a particular point of view.	The government cannot, through the use of anti-discrimination laws, force groups to include a message that they do not wish to convey.
noLabel	|- 2007 BioShock Xbox 360, PC, PS3 2K Games An article in The Patriot Ledger, the local paper of developer Irrational Games, argued that the game is "testing the limits of the ultraviolent gaming genre with a strategy that enables players to kill characters resembling young girls.	" The game presents an ethical choice to players, whether to kill 'Little Sisters' for extra abilities or save them and receive less.
noLabel	Republicans took over control of the House as the 112th Congress began in January 2011, meaning Rangel would have lost his Ways and Means chair even without his ethics issues.	But he was not considered for the ranking member slot either, which after a contested election among the Democratic caucus had gone to former acting chair Sander Levin .
noLabel	The critics of this theory most often claim that individuals have different influences that affect whether they speak out or not.	Critics believe that there are three potential influences besides the fear of isolation that could cause the spiral of silence . 
noLabel	In 1986 On-line Systems (now called Sierra On-Line) asked game designer Al Lowe to create an adult game in the graphical adventure style made popular by their King's Quest series.	Lowe took the basic elements of Softporn Adventure, greatly expanded it, and released it as the 1987 game Leisure Suit Larry in the Land of the Lounge Lizards.
noLabel	President of the United States Ulysses S. Grant served as the NRA's eighth President and General Philip H. Sheridan as its ninth .	United States Congress created the National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice in 1901 to include representatives from the NRA, National Guard, and United States military services.
noLabel	However, German political theorist Hannah Arendt noted: "Violence can be justifiable, but it never will be legitimate .. Its justification loses in plausibility the farther its intended end recedes into the future.	No one questions the use of violence in self-defence, because the danger is not only clear but also present, and the end justifying the means is immediate" .
noLabel	Those dedicated to the cause and profession advocate for a global response to the current biodiversity crisis based on morals, ethics, and scientific reason.	Organizations and citizens are responding to the biodiversity crisis through conservation action plans that direct research, monitoring, and education programs that engage concerns at local through global scales .
noLabel	The World Agroforestry Centre, based in Nairobi, Kenya, is the world’s leading research institution on the diverse roles trees play in agricultural landscapes and rural livelihoods.	As part of our work to bring tree-based solutions to bear on poverty and environmental problems, centre researchers, working in close collaboration with national partners, have developed new technologies, tools and policy recommendations for increased food security and ecosystem health. 
noLabel	Defenders of the present system of strong copyrights argue that it has been largely successful in financing the creation and distribution of a wide variety of works, especially those requiring significant labor and capital.	Moderate scholars seem to support that view while recognizing the need for exceptions and limitations, such as the fair use doctrine.
noLabel	Many African-American intellectuals have commented on and analyzed the paradox that white Americans long regarded many elements of African-American culture quintessentially "American," while at the same time treating African Americans as second-class citizens.	White appropriation, stereotyping and mimicking of black culture played an important role in the construction of an urban popular culture in which European immigrants could express themselves as Americans, through such traditions as blackface, minstrel shows and later in jazz and in early Hollywood cinema, notably in The Jazz Singer (1927) . 
noLabel	Operation Hot Winter, also called Operation Warm Winter (, Mivtza Horef Ham) was an Israel Defense Forces military campaign in the Gaza Strip, launched on February 29, 2008 in response to Qassam rockets fired from the Strip by Hamas.	At least 112 Palestinian militants and civilians, along with three Israelis, were killed, and more than 150 Palestinians and seven Israelis were injured . 
noLabel	Two Arab-Israeli lawmakers previously visited the camp in an effort to build bridges, as did a group of about 100 Arab-Israeli writers and clerics in 2003.	Arab lawmaker Mohammed Barakeh plans to attend a Holocaust memorial ceremony at Auschwitz along with a delegation of Israeli politicians, and his visit has drawn fierce criticism against him among the Arab community . 
noLabel	On the point of probability, Alvin Plantinga says that since according to classical theism, God is a necessary being, he is by definition maximally probable, and thus to show the improbability of God, one has to present an argument showing that there is no necessary being with the qualities attributed to God .	Eric MacDonald has pointed out that theists assume the coherence of their position when they make arguments for God when by Plantinga's standard they would have to present an argument that the concept of God is not logically incoherent before discussing other arguments .
noLabel	Secrecy is often controversial, depending on the content of the secret, the group or people keeping the secret, and the motivation for secrecy.	Secrecy by government entities is often decried as excessive or in promotion of poor operation; excessive revelation of information on individuals can conflict with virtues of privacy and confidentiality.
noLabel	It also allows for students to attend the cyber charter school and not necessarily be located in that local school district.	It can inherently be seen that many very different problems may arise in cyber charter schools when compared to typical charter schools or traditional schools.
noLabel	Proponents argue that increasing GDP (per capita) is empirically shown to bring about improved standards of living, such as better availability of food, housing, clothing, and health care .	The decrease in the number of hours worked per week and the decreased participation of children and the elderly in the workforce have been attributed to capitalism . 
noLabel	Cheap water filters and promoting hand washing are some of the most cost effective health interventions and can cut deaths from diarrhea and pneumonia .	Knowledge on the cost effectiveness of healthcare interventions can be elusive and educational measures have been made to disseminate what works, such as the Copenhagen Consensus . 
noLabel	In the 1970s the UK Polaris RVs and warheads were vulnerable to the Soviet ABM screen concentrated around Moscow, and the UK developed a Polaris improved-front-end (IFE) codenamed Chevaline, designed to counter this ABM defence which threatened to completely nullify an independent UK deterrent posture.	When Chevaline became public knowledge in 1980, it generated huge controversy as it had been kept secret by the four governments of Wilson, Heath, Wilson (again) and Callaghan, whilst costs rocketed; admittedly during a period of high inflation; until disclosed by the Thatcher government.
noLabel	More recently, ethnic conflicts in Bosnia and Herzegovina and genocide in Rwanda have been described as mass-based hate crimes, but the term "hate crime" did not really begin to be used until after World War II and the end of most major government-sanctioned racial cleansing projects that had been linked with official fascism.	The term "hate crime" is now used more often than in the past mainly because the groups that used to have official endorsement under with intergovernmental and/or armed forces involvement. 
noLabel	Some speculated that he would be beatified sometime during (or soon after) the month of the 32nd anniversary of his 1978 election, in October 2010.	As Monsignor Oder noted, this course would have been possible if the second decree were signed in time by Benedict XVI, stating that a posthumous miracle directly attributable to his intercession had occurred, completing the positio. 
noLabel	Possibilities are also emerging as some developing countries are experiencing rapid economic growth, they are able to provide their own expertise gained from their recent transition.	This knowledge transfer can be seen in donors, such as Brazil, whose $1 billion in aid outstrips that of many traditional donors .
noLabel	In March 2008, this population began a multiyear resettlement to third countries including the United States, New Zealand, Denmark, Canada, Norway and Australia.	At present, the United States is working towards resettling more than 60,000 of these refugees in the US as a third country settlement programme . 
noLabel	The decade of the 2000s saw a global explosion in prices, focused especially in commodities and housing, marking an end to the commodities recession of 1980–2000.	In 2008, the prices of many commodities, notably oil and food, rose so high as to cause genuine economic damage, threatening stagflation and a reversal of globalization . 
noLabel	The New Zealand monarchy has its roots in the British crown, from which it has evolved to become a distinctly New Zealand institution, represented by unique symbols.	The New Zealand monarchsince 6 February 1952, Elizabeth IIis today shared equally with fifteen other countries within the Commonwealth of Nations, all being independent and the monarchy of each legally distinct.
noLabel	Another way to fix this problem would be to mandate that if a conference champion finishes with a low ranking (say below 12) that they forfeit their automatic bid, and get put into the pool of "at large" teams that the BCS can choose from.	Thus, a higher ranked non-BCS team (or an extra team from other BCS conferences) could be selected by a bowl game.
noLabel	Since 2003, Sudan has been accused of carrying out a campaign against several black ethnic groups in Darfur, in response to a rebellion by Africans alleging mistreatment.	Sudanese irregular militia known as the Janjaweed and Sudanese military and police forces have killed an estimated 450,000, expelled around two million, and burned 800 villages .
noLabel	 a position he first announced in 2001 in response to a question by a Catholic news agency reporter during a meeting in New York City.	After stating that the Bishops' Conference had not taken a position on condom use, Dowling was asked for his personal opinion, and said that he believed condoms should be used to prevent the spread of HIV. 
noLabel	Hereditary monarchies most usually arrange succession by a legislated, definite order of succession so that it is well-known beforehand who will be the next monarch.	Nowadays, the typical order of succession in hereditary monarchies is based on some form of primogeniture, but there exist other methods such as seniority, tanistry and rotation, which were much more common in the past. 
noLabel	The second event was the August 1998 launch of a North Korean Taepodong-1 missile over Japan which caused a public outcry and led some to call for remilitarization or the development of nuclear weapons.	Fukushiro Nukaga, head of the Japan Defense Agency, said that his government would be justified in mounting pre-emptive strikes against North Korean missile bases.
noLabel	I think Balco is the tip of the iceberg, said Steven Ungerleider, a sports psychologist in Eugene, Ore., and author of Faust's Gold, which depicted the state-sponsored doping system in the former East Germany.	I think there are probably a dozen labs working with athletes and chemists to figure out designer drugs and not get caught.
noLabel	The phenomena of user-created modifications (or "mods") for games, one trend that began during the Wolfenstein 3D and Doom-era, continued into the turn of the millennium.	The most famous example is that of Counter-Strike; released in 1999, it is still the most popular online first-person shooter, even though it was created as a mod for Half-Life by two independent programmers.
noLabel	Schools and their teachers have always been under pressure — for instance, pressure to cover the curriculum, to perform well in comparison to other schools, and to avoid the stigma of being "soft" or "spoiling" toward students.	Forms of discipline, such as control over when students may speak, and normalized behaviour, such as raising a hand to speak, are imposed in the name of greater efficiency.
noLabel	According to an editorial published by the Greek right-wing newspaper Kathimerini, large public deficits are one of the features that have marked the Greek social model since the restoration of democracy in 1974.	After the removal of the right-wing military junta, the government wanted to bring disenfranchised left-leaning portions of the population into the economic mainstream .
noLabel	"As president, Obama will support the development of this vital new platform Crew Exploration Vehicle to ensure that the United States' reliance on foreign space capabilities is limited to the minimum possible time period.	" Obama advocated a delay of the NASA Constellation Program by at least five years in order to fund educational programs .
noLabel	Broughton also invented and encouraged the use of "mufflers", a form of padded gloves, which were used in training and exhibitions.	The first paper on boxing was published in the late 18th century by successful Birmingham boxer 'William Futrell' who remained undefeated until his one hour and seventeen minute fight at Smitham Bottom, Croydon, on July 9, 1788 against a much younger "Gentleman" John Jackson which was attended by the Prince of Wales. 
noLabel	An early form of second strike capability had already been provided by the use of continual patrols of nuclear-equipped bombers, with a fixed number of planes always in the air (and therefore untouchable by a first strike) at any given time.	The use of this tactic was reduced however, by the high logistic difficulty of keeping enough planes active at all times, and the increasing priority given to ICBMs over bombers (which might be shot down by air defenses before reaching their targets). 
noLabel	Constitutional monarchy (or limited monarchy) is a form of government in which a monarch acts as head of state within the parameters of a constitution, whether it be a written, uncodified, or blended constitution.	This form of government differs from absolute monarchy in which an absolute monarch serves as the source of power in the state and is not legally bound by any constitution and has the powers to regulate his or her respective government. 
noLabel	Christopher Hitchens condemned the flotilla for its cooperation with Hamas, noting Hamas' official and programmatic adoption of the antisemitic forgery The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, its expression of outrage at the death of Osama bin Laden, and its ties with Hezbollah, al-Qaeda and the regimes of Syria and Iran.	He also criticized the media for "soft-centred coverage" of the affair, suggesting that pointed questions should have been asked of the flotilla participants and that the title "activists" was an inaccurate and gratuitously positive label for the participants . 
noLabel	The ban on flavoring applies to any product meeting the definition of a "cigarette" according to section 3(1) of the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.	This includes any tobacco that comes rolled such as cigarettes and cigars, and added to this definition in the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act is any tobacco with the purpose to be rolled such as rolling tobacco. 
noLabel	Harper's Magazine published a brief telephone interview with Desmond Travers in which he was asked to respond to criticism of the mission and the report.	He rejected the criticism that insufficient weight was given to the difficulties of fighting in the urban environment, and said that he was surprised by what he called "the intensity and viciousness of the personal attacks aimed at members of the Mission".
noLabel	Other European countries only agreed to provide money for these bail outs on the condition of the countries being rescued impose austerity to reduce their expenditures to provide confidence that they will be able to pay back their debts.	On 2nd March 2012 European leaders with the exception of the UK and Czech Republic signed the Fiscal Compact which committed its signatories to a structural deficit (meaning it allows for deficits for investments like infrastructure that will pay off in the future) not exceeding 0.5% of GDP and to reducing government debt down to 60% of GDP.
noLabel	Three high profile demonstrators were released by the Burmese government; Zargana, a prominent comedian, along with actor Kyaw Thu, and his wife.	In a published statement the junta stated: "Those who led, got involved in and supported the unrest which broke out in September are being interrogated" and "Some are still being called in for questioning and those who should be released will be."
noLabel	Some individuals, particularly those with strong religious beliefs, maintain that it is in the best interests of individuals and of humanity as a whole that all people adhere to a specific model for society or specific aspects of such a model.	For example, evangelical missionary organisations such as the New Tribes Mission actively work to support social changes that some observers would consider detrimental to cultural diversity by seeking out remote tribal societies to convert them to Christianity; . 
noLabel	Inversely, the Dalai Lama said "If someone has a gun and is trying to kill you, it would be reasonable to shoot back with your own gun."	(May 15, 2001, The Seattle Times) speaking at the "Educating Heart Summit" in Portland, Oregon, when asked by a girl how to react when a shooter takes aim at a classmate.
noLabel	There will always be cheats in sport; but you can judge a sport and those who run it by the extent to which cheats are tolerated."	Jeff Powell Daily Mail, October 23 "There is one simple, five-letter word for every athlete who has ever pumped his or her body full of rocket fuel in the hope of winning Olympic glory and a great deal of filthy lucre.
noLabel	Although the courts have not ruled on the question of fetal personhood, the question has been raised in two cases, Tremblay v. Daigle and R. v. Sullivan.	Both cases relied on the born alive rule, inherited from English common law, to determine that the fetus was not a person at law. 
noLabel	I'm concerned about the message we are sending to our children that, in order to play well, you have to be juiced up.	What fans often fail to consider, scientists said, are the long-term health problems associated with steroids, including heart disease and liver tumors.
noLabel	State UI regular benefit outlays are estimated at $61 billion in FY 2011 and $64.3 billion in FY 2012, down somewhat from Midsession estimates .	Outlays from state trust fund accounts are projected to exceed revenues and interest income by $16.0 billion in FY 2011 and $15.1 billion in FY 2012 .
noLabel	For much of the early Twentieth century, Catholic women continued to join religious orders in large numbers, where their influence and control was particularly strong in the running of primary education for children, high schooling for girls, and in nursing, hospitals, orphanages and aged care facilities.	The Second Vatican Council of the 1960s liberalised the strictures of Catholic religious life, particularly for women in holy orders, however, in the latter half of the 20th century, vocations for women in the West entered a steep decline.
noLabel	From these early influences individualist anarchism in different countries attracted a small but diverse following of bohemian artists and intellectuals, free love and birth control advocates (see Anarchism and issues related to love and sex), individualist naturists nudists (see anarcho-naturism), freethought and anti-clearical activists as well as young anarchist outlaws in what came to be known as illegalism and individual reclamation(see European individualist anarchism and individualist anarchism in France).	These authors and activists included Oscar Wilde, Emile Armand, Han Ryner, Henri Zisly, Renzo Novatore, Miguel Gimenez Igualada, Adolf Brand and Lev Chernyi among others.
noLabel	Coffee cup advertising is any advertisement placed upon a coffee cup that is distributed out of an office, café, or drive-through coffee shop.	This form of advertising was first popularized in Australia, and has begun growing in popularity in the United States, India, and parts of the Middle East. 
noLabel	Economists debate the level of debt relative to GDP that signals a "red line" or dangerous level, or if any such level exists .	By comparison, China's budget deficit was 1.6% of its $10 trillion GDP in 2010, with a debt to GDP ratio of 16% . 
noLabel	The current contract mandates that teachers work 195 days or 1,265 hours a year.Gove told a conference in London, organised by the Spectator magazine, that pupils were being handicapped in comparison with their peers in other countries.	"The structure of the school term and the school day was designed at a time when we had an agricultural economy," he said.
noLabel	of refugees and the resolution of refugee problems..guided by the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol.	" The UNHCR has traditionally argued that it does not have a "general competence for IDPs" even though at least since 1972 it had relief and rehabillatation programs for those displaced within a country.
noLabel	Often modeled upon violent FPS games, non-violent FPSes such as Chex Quest or the newer Sherlock Holmes games, may bear striking resemblance to the violent game whose engine they are using.	Developers of such games often have done little to change the game other than replacing violent or scary imagery and recasting the storyline to describe "zorching", "slobbing", or otherwise non-lethally incapacitating enemies.
noLabel	Most hydroelectric power comes from the potential energy of dammed water driving a water turbine and generator; to boost the power generation capabilities of a dam, the water may be run through a large pipe called a penstock before the turbine.	A variant on this simple model uses pumped storage hydroelectricity to produce electricity to match periods of high and low demand, by moving water between reservoirs at different elevations.
noLabel	After studying 315 suicide attacks carried out over the last two decades, he concludes that suicide bombers' actions stem from political conflict, not religion .	Michael A. Sheehan argues that many terrorist groups use religious and cultural terms to conceal political goals and gain popular support .
noLabel	" After Israel withdrew in 2005, Palestinian Authority Chairman Mahmoud Abbas stated, "the legal status of the areas slated for evacuation has not changed.	" Palestinian American attorney Gregory Khalil said "Israel still controls every person, every good, literally every drop of water to enter or leave the Gaza Strip.
noLabel	The Israeli high court rejected a petition seeking to overrule Attorney-General Yehuda Weinstein's decision to halt the police investigation into the attack .	On June 3rd, the Israeli Supreme Court ruled that the soldiers responded in self-defense, and that the Gaza blockade and the raid of the ships were legal . 
noLabel	Libya began secret negotiations with the United States and the United Kingdom in March 2003 over potentially eliminating its WMD programs.	In October 2003, Libya was embarrassed by the interdiction of a shipment of Pakistani-designed centrifuge parts sent from Malaysia, also as part of A. Q. Khan's proliferation ring .
noLabel	Non-citizens who serve in the United States military enjoy several naturalization benefits which are unavailable to non-citizens who do not, such as a waiver of application fees .	Permanent resident aliens who die while serving in the U.S. Armed Forces may be naturalized posthumously, which may be beneficial to surviving family members .
noLabel	In 2006, Jian Li, a Chinese undergraduate at Yale University, filed a civil rights complaint with the Office for Civil Rights against Princeton University, claiming that his race played a role in their decision to reject his application for admission, and seeking the suspension of federal financial assistance to the university until it "discontinues discrimination against Asian-Americans in all forms" by eliminating race and legacy preferences.	Princeton Dean of Admissions Janet Rapelye responded to the claims in the 30 November 2006 issue of the Daily Princetonian by stating that "the numbers don't indicate [discrimination]" and that Li was not admitted because "Many others had far better qualifications."
noLabel	John Paul's position against artificial birth control, including the use of condoms to prevent the spread of HIV, was harshly criticised by doctors and AIDS activists, who said that it led to countless deaths and millions of AIDS orphans .	Critics have also claimed that large families are caused by lack of contraception and exacerbate Third World poverty and problems such as street children in South America.
noLabel	When one member of a marital union has sexual intercourse with another person apart from the union without their consent, it may be considered to be infidelity.	In some cultures this act may be considered ethical if the spouse consents, or acceptable as long as the partner is not married, while other cultures might view any sexual intercourse outside of marriage as unethical, with or without consent. 
noLabel	The public schools in many of the poorer parts of Cleveland were deemed failures, and the legislature enacted the Pilot Project Scholarship Program in an effort to address the problem .	The program provided tuition vouchers for up to $2,250 a year to some parents of students in the Cleveland City School District to attend participating public or private schools in the city and neighboring suburbs; it also allocated tutorial aid for students who remained in public school. 
noLabel	It seems likely the cost of power will need to rise substantially over the medium term (2–5 years) to curb wasteful energy consumption and slow the rate of growth in electricity demand.	In theory, the government could raise power costs by a similar amount across the whole of China in the interests of inter-regional equity. 
noLabel	A BBC report stated that Gambari was in Singapore for a meeting with Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong, but had not spoken with journalists.	He was to prepare a report on his talks with Burma's leaders and brief the UN Security Council later in the week . 
noLabel	John Maynard Keynes was one of the first economists to advocate government deficit spending as part of the fiscal policy response to an economic contraction.	In Keynesian economics, increased government spending is thought to raise aggregate demand and increase consumption, which in turn leads to increased production.
noLabel	There can be two identical houses in terms of amenities and size but the value of each house depends on the racial makeup of the people within the community.	Once about 20 percent of the homeowners in a neighborhood are black, in two years, the entire neighborhoods will be black.
noLabel	Universal Primary Education is one of the eight Millennium Development Goals and great improvements have been achieved in the past decade, yet a great deal remains to be done .	Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute indicate the main obstacles to greater funding from donors include: donor priorities, aid architecture, and the lack of evidence and advocacy .
noLabel	Pierre Vidal-Naquet pointed out the same phenomenon in the earlier version of Les Assassins de la mémoire under the title Auschwitz et le tiers monde (Les Assassins de la mémoire, Paris, 2005, pp.&nbsp;170–180), and accurately about the declarations of Klaus Barbie's lawyer André Vergès.	In 1977, Martin Broszat in a review of David Irving's book Hitler's War maintained that the picture of World War II drawn by Irving was done in a such way to engage in moral equivalence between the actions of the Axis and Allied states with both sides equally guilty of terrible crimes, leading to Hitler's "fanatical, destructive will to annihilate" being downgraded to being "no longer an exceptional phenomenon" .
noLabel	The rates at which volunteers find a flaw is measured by λv and the rate that paid reviewers find a flaw is measured by λp.	The expected time that a volunteer group is expected to find a flaw is 1/(Nv λv) and the expected time that a paid group is expected to find a flaw is 1/(Np λp).
noLabel	Equatorial Guinea: It is rumored that president Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo's son Teodoro Nguema Obiang is his father's favorite to succeed him .	However, it is suspected that a power struggle between the younger Teodoro and his uncle Armengol Ondo Nguema might occur after the president's death. 
noLabel	Hypothyroidism is a hormonal cause of obesity, but it does not significantly affect obese people who have it more than obese people who do not have it.	In a comparison of 108 obese patients with hypothyroidism to 131 obese patients without hypothyroidism, researchers discovered that those with hypothyroidism had only 0.077 points more on the caloric intake scale than did those without hypothyroidism .
noLabel	One of the conditions of this exemption is a yearly aggregate limit on the amount each person may invest in offerings of this type, tiered by the person's net worth or yearly income.	The limit ranges from 2% of people earning (or worth) up to $40,000, up to a cap of $10,000 for people earning (or worth) $100,000 or more.
noLabel	However, from the autumn of 2011, a new grading system has been introduced into the Swedish school system: A, B, C, D, and E as passing grades and F as Failing.	B and D work as filling grades, for when a student hasn't reached all objectives for C or A, but has reached most of them.
noLabel	Sometimes the group paid people as much as $4 to sign a petition to put the initiatives on the ballot, according to one report from the San Francisco Chronicle which ran editorials opposing the referendum .	According to a second source, prices paid for signatures to petition the ballot initiatives ranged from $1 in California to $3 in Arizona .
noLabel	But so-called positive action efforts to bring an underprivileged person up to speed before a competition begins are limited to the period of time before the evaluation begins; at that point, the "final selection for posts must be made according to the principle the best person for the job," that is, a less qualified applicant should not be chosen over a more qualified applicant .	And there are nuanced views too: one position suggested that the unequal results following a competition were unjust if caused by bad luck but just if chosen by the individual, and that weighing matters such as personal responsibility was important; this variant of the substantive model has sometimes been called luck egalitarianism .
noLabel	In early 2006, Mao Hengfeng was detained in a roundup of petitioners before the anniversary of the Tiananmen Incident and placed under residential surveillance.	She was then charged with "violating the terms of residential surveillance," and placed her under "soft detention" in a small guesthouse room with six other men and women in Yangpu District, Shanghai .
noLabel	Strengthen linkages between national and subnational MRV systems for REDD+: Challenges remain for monitoring forest degradation and peatland emissions but these may be overcome with significant additional capacity building and technology transfer, including the application of novel technologies.	Examples include Google’s Earth Engine (demonstrated by Rebecca Moore, Head of Google’s Global Outreach Program prior to the Closing Plenary of FD4), Open Data Kit and androids for forest biomass measurements with communities. 
noLabel	The HPI-1 is calculated based on the percentage of people not expected to survive to 40, the adult illiteracy rate, the percentage of people without access to safe water, health services and the percentage of children under 5 who are underweight.	The HPI-2 is calculated based on the percentage of people who do not survive to 60, the adult functional illiteracy rate and the percentage of people living below 50% of median personal disposable income. 
noLabel	criminals or identifiable potential criminals– without its simply being ignored or easily circumvented by that group) can, in fact, be accomplished.	Any study claiming that its data "shows" that a given law produced a given effect is simultaneously asserting that these first two assumptions were true. 
noLabel	The Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising from their Utilization (ABS) to the Convention on Biological Diversity is a supplementary agreement to the Convention on Biological Diversity.	It provides a transparent legal framework for the effective implementation of one of the three objectives of the CBD: the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising out of the utilization of genetic resources.
noLabel	Although the concept has existed for centuries, the term meritocracy was first coined by British politician and sociologist, Michael Young in his 1958 satirical essay, "The Rise of the Meritocracy", which pictured the United Kingdom under the rule of a government favoring intelligence and aptitude (merit) above all.	The essay is written in the first-person by a fictional historical narrator in 2034, and interweaves history from the politics of pre- and post-war Britain with those of fictional future events in the short (1960 onward) and long term (2020 onward) . 
noLabel	The only values mentioned by the Charter's preamble are recognition for the supremacy of God and the rule of law, but these have been controversial and of minor legal consequence.	In 1999, MP Svend Robinson brought forward a failed proposal before the Canadian House of Commons that would have amended the Charter by removing the mention of God, as he felt it did not reflect Canada's diversity. 
noLabel	Theism generally holds that God exists realistically, objectively, and independently of human thought; that God created and sustains everything; that God is omnipotent and eternal; personal and interacting with the universe through for example religious experience and the prayers of humans .	It holds that God is both transcendent and immanent; thus, God is simultaneously infinite and in some way present in the affairs of the world .
noLabel	Though only men can receive the sacrament of Holy Orders, there have been many female Catholic saints and many devotions started by women.	Women have played an important role in Catholicism through convents and abbeys, particularly in the establishment of schools, hospitals, nursing homes and monastic settlements, through religious orders of nuns or sisters like the Benedictines, Dominicans, Loreto Sisters, Sisters of Mercy, Little Sisters of the Poor, Josephites, and Missionaries of Charity. 
noLabel	As the bedrock text of Catholicism, the New Testament is instructive in terms of the attitudes espoused by the church towards women.	Among the most famous accounts of Jesus directly dealing with an issue of morality and women is provided by the story Jesus and the woman taken in adultery, from verses of the Gospel of John.
noLabel	The focus of public health interventions is to prevent and manage diseases, injuries and other health conditions through surveillance of cases and the promotion of healthy behaviors, communities, and (in aspects relevant to human health) environments.	Its aim is preventing from happening or re-occurring health problems by implementing educational programs, developing policies, administering services, and conducting research .
noLabel	As the International Rugby Board governing the sport is based in Dublin and is heavily dominated by the Home Nations, there has never been a threat to the independence of each country's team and a joint team, known as the British and Irish Lions will tour a Southern Hemisphere nation every four years.	The Lions games however do not compete in any major tournaments, and will play local clubs as well as the host nation's First XV.
noLabel	From this stage, the cigar is a complete product that can be "laid down" and aged for decades if kept as close to 21°C (70°F), and 70% relative humidity, as the environment will allow.	Once cigars have been purchased, proper storage is usually accomplished by keeping the cigars in a specialized wooden box, or humidor, where conditions can be carefully controlled for long periods of time.
noLabel	Each year, the President of the United States submits his budget request to Congress for the following fiscal year as required by the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921.	Current law ((a)) requires the president to submit a budget no earlier than the first Monday in January, and no later than the first Monday in February.
noLabel	They lost their employment or their livelihood, and sought to use whatever protection their citizenship of the UK and Colonies could offer them.	Their passports had been issued by the British High Commission and, therefore, under the 1962 Act they were not subject to immigration control.
noLabel	New Zealand's gun laws are notably more liberal than other countries in the Pacific, focusing mainly on vetting firearm owners, rather than registering firearms or banning certain types of firearms.	Firearms legislation is provided for in the Arms Act and its associated regulations, though stricter unofficial police and government policies also apply. 
noLabel	The first atomic bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were large, custom-made devices, requiring highly trained personnel for their arming and deployment.	They could be dropped only from the largest bomber planes&mdash;at the time the B-29 Superfortress&mdash;and each plane could only hold a single bomb in its hold. 
noLabel	On the other hand, critics of Canada's multiculturalism argue that the country's "timid" attitude towards the assimilation of immigrants has actually weakened, not strengthened Canada's national identity through factionalism.	Columnist and author Richard Gwyn expresses concern that Canada's sense of self may become so weak that it might vanish altogether .
noLabel	Meanwhile, advocacy group Americans for Limited Government has raised concerns about funding received by TPSAC chair Jonathan Samet from GlaxoSmithKline and other pharmaceutical companies .	In January 2011, Gregory N. Connolly resigned from the committee following allegations of conflicts of interest citing payments to provide deposition or trial testimony in lawsuits against tobacco companies . 
noLabel	Per the Canadian constitution, public-school education in Canada is a provincial responsibility and, as such, there are many variations between the provinces.	Junior Kindergarten (or equivalent) exists as an official program in only Ontario and Quebec while kindergarten (or equivalent) is available in every province, but provincial funding and the level of hours provided varies widely.
noLabel	In the Portuguese and Spanish colonization of the Americas the policy of Indian Reductions and Jesuit Reductions resulted in forced conversions of indigenous peoples of the Americas from their long practiced spiritual and religious traditions and theological beliefs.	The actual population of indigenous peoples, congregations of neophytes and the untouched, plummeted from unintended consequences of missionary Christianity's contacts .
noLabel	Recognizing that recovering assets once transferred and concealed is an exceedingly costly, complex and all-too-often unsuccessful process, this Chapter also incorporates elements intended to prevent illicit transfers and generate records that can be used where illicit transfers eventually have to be traced, frozen, seized and confiscated (Article 52).	The identification of experts who can assist developing countries in this process is also included as a form of technical assistance (Article 60(5)).
noLabel	Criticism against assassinations has been raised also from the Israeli left, who say assassination policy is "gangster behaviour" unbecoming of a government and is against Israeli law .	Israel's Supreme Court has ruled that assassinations are illegal, but leaked documents suggest that Israel's army has ignored the ruling .
noLabel	Additionally, El Niño-Southern Oscillation events drive the interannual climatic variability in temperature and precipitation and result in drought and increased intensity of the dry season.	As anthropogenic warming increases the intensity and frequency of ENSO will increase, leaving tropical rainforest regions susceptible to stress and increased mortality of trees .
noLabel	The General Assembly has already twice called on the domestic authorities to conduct credible, independent investigations into the serious violations of international humanitarian and international human rights law documented by the UN Fact-Finding Mission, in resolutions adopted in November 2009 and February 2010.	Those calls appear to have been ignored meaning that the General Assembly would be entitled to submit the issue to the Security Council .
noLabel	Recent studies, though, have found that many of these mothers had already dropped out of school prior to becoming pregnant, but those in school at the time of their pregnancy were as likely to graduate as their peers.	One study in 2001 found that women who gave birth during their teens completed secondary-level schooling 10–12% as often and pursued post-secondary education 14–29% as often as women who waited until age 30 .
noLabel	Under Mexican rule in California, Indians were subjected to de facto enslavement under a system of peonage by the white elite.	While in 1850, California formally entered the Union as a free state, with respect to the issue of slavery, the practice of Indian indentured servitude was not outlawed by the California Legislature until 1863 . 
noLabel	They included one potential alternative route in Nebraska that would have avoided the entire Sandhills region and Ogallala aquifer and six alternatives that would have reduced pipeline mileage crossing the Sandhills or the aquifer .	On November 22, 2011, the governor of Nebraska signed two bills that enacted a compromise agreed upon with the pipeline builder to move the route, and approved up to US$2&nbsp;million in state funding for an environmental study . 
noLabel	While this is technically true in some cases, more recent studies have shown that detection times of 30+ days are actually quite exceptional, even for chronic users subjected to tests with lower than normal cutoffs.	Under the typical 50&nbsp;ng/mL cutoff for THC in the United States, an occasional or on-off user would be very unlikely to test positive beyond 3–4 days since the last use, and a chronic user would be unlikely to test positive much beyond 7 days.
noLabel	At the same time a movement emerged in favour of a "White Australia" policy; however British authorities in Whitehall were opposed to segregational laws.	To circumvent Westminster, those in favour of the discriminatory policies backed the proposed secession from the Empire as a republic; a move advertised and advocated by the journal The Bulletin .
noLabel	The exact specifications of the "Little Boy" bomb remain classified because they could still be used to create a viable nuclear weapon.	Even so, many sources have speculated as to the design, relying on limited photographic evidence, interviews with former Manhattan Project personnel, and piecing together information from declassified sources to reconstruct its internal dimensions. 
noLabel	Most discrimination in the US and Europe is claimed to be in terms of racial and ethnic discrimination -- blacks and Hispanics in the USA, Muslims in Europe.	In most parts of the world, women are held to lower positions, lower pay, and restricted opportunities of land ownership or economic incentive to enter businesses or start them . 
noLabel	Journalist Anat Kamm was sentenced to four and a half years in October 2011 for leaking 2,000 classified military documents obtained during her service with the Israeli Defense Force (IDF).	The documents, which were leaked to Haaretz reporter Uri Blau, revealed that the killing of two Palestinian militants by Israeli security forces in the West Bank contravened a 2006 Supreme Court ruling on targeted assassinations.
noLabel	However, the 1947 yearbook states: "Estimates of the world Jewish population have been assembled by the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (except for the United States and Canada) and are probably the most authentic available at the present time.	The figures reveal that the total Jewish population of the world has decreased by one-third from about 16,600,000 in 1939 to about 11,000,000 in 1946 as the result of the annihilation by the Nazis of more than five and a half million European Jews.
noLabel	Circumcision is used therapeutically, as one of the treatment options for balanitis xerotica obliterans, phimosis, balanitis, posthitis, balanoposthitis and for preventing urinary tract infections in high risk boys .	Summaries of the views of professional associations of physicians include that none currently recommend routine circumcision,and most recommend neither universal circumcision nor its prohibition . 
noLabel	Professor William I. Robinson was accused of anti-Semitism because his classroom materials included a visual image comparison of the Israeli attacks on Gaza to the Warsaw Ghetto.	The Anti-Defamation League criticized Robinson, accusing him of academic misconduct, while Scholars for Peace in the Middle East support Robinson, citing academic freedom . 
noLabel	Besides a nuclear program, Syria is believed to have extensive arsenals, as well as biological and chemical warheads for its long-range missiles .	On February 25, 2009, IAEA officials reported that Ibrahim Othman, Syria's nuclear chief, told a closed IAEA technical meeting it held that Syria built a missile facility on the site .
noLabel	All of these features, namely non-interference, informality, minimal institutionalisation, consultation and consensus, non-use of force and non-confrontation have constituted what is called the ASEAN Way.	This ASEAN Way has recently proven itself relatively successful in the settlements of disputes by peaceful manner realm, with Chinese and ASEAN officials agreeing to draft guidelines ordered to avert tension in the South China Sea, an important milestone ending almost a decade of deadlock . 
noLabel	While the worst penalties are unlikely to be enforced, even the milder penalties, such as a determination of a cartel and trust, would have devastating consequences for the BCS and the current system.	The court could also order a resolution of the current unfair competition inherent in the structure of the BCS, including ordering a playoff system and ordering the Bowls to participate.
noLabel	Earmarks have been controversial for decades, with opponents arguing that they create bloated and wasteful budgets to the detriment of taxpayers.	They are also seen as the main means by which “pork barrel” politics is practiced, with Congressmen competing to insert as many earmarks as possible into legislation in order to bring federal spending into their state and so boost their chances of re-election.
noLabel	In September 2010, A UN Human Rights Council panel said Israel and Hamas had failed to conduct credible and adequate investigations into the war crimes allegations contained in the Goldstone report.	The panel said Israel only investigated low-ranking officials and failed to investigate the role of "officials at the highest levels", while Hamas was criticised for not making serious efforts to investigate .
noLabel	The Sudanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement on behalf of the government, saying it was "strongly condemning the repeated Israeli crimes" and "calls on the international community, including governments, organizations and peoples, to come together, more than any time before" to show "the real power of law" to stop the Israeli regime from committing what it described as "crimes against humanity and genocide against the Palestinian people".	It called on the international community to unite to end Israel's "enjoy[ment of] protection and support of influential countries" and what it sees as "exposed silence on the part of the United Nations" .
noLabel	" As a result, many European Jewish fathers during the nineteenth century chose not to circumcise their sons, including Theodore Herzl .	In the US, an official Reform resolution in 1893 abolished circumcision for converts, and this ambivalence towards the practice has carried over to classical-minded Reform Jews today.
noLabel	The Council of Jerusalem in Acts of the Apostles 15 addressed the issue of whether circumcision was required of new converts to Christianity.	Both Simon Peter and James the Just spoke against requiring circumcision in Gentile converts and the Council ruled that circumcision was not necessary.
noLabel	On 21 June 2006, then-United States Republican Senator Rick Santorum claimed "We have found weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, chemical weapons."	According to the Washington Post, he was referring to 500 such shells "that had been buried near the Iranian border, and then long forgotten, by Iraqi troops during their eight-year war with Iran, which ended in 1988."
noLabel	According to the official news agency of the government of Indonesia, ANTARA, the Dutch ambassador Dr Nikolaos van Dam had sent a letter on April 1.	In it, he says how Dutch society is one of peaceful co-existence, with respect for the law, which guarantees safety and freedom of speech and freedom of religion.
noLabel	The primary received its first major test in the 1912 election pitting incumbent President William Howard Taft against challengers Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson.	Roosevelt proved the most popular candidate, but as most primaries were non-binding "preference" shows and held in only fourteen of the-then forty-eight states, the Republican nomination went to Taft, who controlled the convention. 
noLabel	Some conservatives in the UK claim that the welfare state has produced a generation of dependents who, instead of working, rely solely upon the state for income and support; even though assistance is only legally available to those unable to work.	The welfare state in the UK was created to provide certain people with a basic level of benefits in order to alleviate poverty, but these conservatives believe that it has been expanded to provide more people with more money from the state than it can ideally afford . 
noLabel	In many countries, official portraits of the head of state can be found in government offices, courts of law, even airports, libraries, and other public buildings.	The idea, sometimes regulated by law, is to use these portraits to make the public aware of the symbolic connection to the government, a practice that dates back to mediaeval times.
noLabel	The study panel members included: Robert Dobie, a doctor and clinical professor at the University of Texas, Geoff Leventhall, a noise vibration and acoustics expert in the United Kingdom, Bo Sondergaard, with Danish Electronics Light and Acoustics, Michael Seilo, a professor of audiology at Western Washington University, and Robert McCunney, a biological engineering scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.	McCunney contested statements that infrasounds from wind turbines could create vibrations causing ill health: "It doesn't really have much credence, at least based on the literature out there" he stated .
noLabel	Cropping systems vary among farms depending on the available resources and constraints; geography and climate of the farm; government policy; economic, social and political pressures; and the philosophy and culture of the farmer .	Shifting cultivation (or slash and burn) is a system in which forests are burnt, releasing nutrients to support cultivation of annual and then perennial crops for a period of several years . 
noLabel	Still in 1988 the later supreme court justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote: "Generalizations about the way women or men are .. cannot guide me reliably in making decisions about particular individuals" .	In an ACLU's s Women's Rights Project in the 1970s Ginsburg challenged the laws that gave health service benefits to wives of servicemen but not to husbands of servicewomen and prohibited women from certain businesses including running a bar alone . 
noLabel	The greatest mortality in Africa arises from preventable water-borne diseases, which affects infants and young children greater than any other group.	The principal cause of these diseases is the regional water crisis, or lack of safe drinking water primarily stemming from mixing sewage and drinking water supplies. 
noLabel	In Tyneside large council estates include Byker and Walker in Newcastle, Felling in Gateshead and Meadow Well in North Tyneside, the site of violent civil disorder during the early 1990s.	A large urban regeneration scheme is also being planned for Scotswood in the West End of Newcastle after decades of urban decay and high crime levels. 
noLabel	Park rangers and guides at Marojejy National Park were forced away from their posts at gunpoint resulting in the closing of the park in April, and the MEF's regional offices were set on fire and its staff were intimidated .	Violent attacks on park staff were documented in August 2009 at Mananara Biosphere Reserve and Masoala National Park, and politicians that have stood up against illegal logging have also faced violent threats or worse .
noLabel	The Japanese government first agreed to provide additional support in 1978 by assuming responsibility for the welfare payments of Japanese nationals employed by the USFJ.	When questioned in the Diet about the new appropriation in June, Kanemaru made a series of statements in which he repeatedly used the word "omoiyari," which means sympathy or consideration: . 
noLabel	No individual has been formally charged with any wrongdoing, but there is now an ongoing federal investigation being run by the U.S. Attorney's office in Los Angeles, and a federal grand jury in Los Angeles has issued at least 10 subpoenas .	As of early July 2006, one of Lowery's two ex-wives, Melinda Morrin, has been interviewed twice by the FBI about her ex-husband's dealings . 
noLabel	Targeted killing has been used by governments around the world, and become a frequent tactic of the United States and Israel in their fight against terrorism .	The tactic can raise complex questions and lead to contentious disputes as to the legal basis for its application, who qualifies as an appropriate "hit list" target, and what circumstances must exist before the tactic may be employed .
noLabel	When Thomas Wyatt the younger instigated what became known as Wyatt's rebellion, John Ponet, the highest-ranking ecclesiastic among the exiles, allegedly participated in the uprising .	He escaped to Strasbourg after the Rebellion's defeat and, the following year, he published A Shorte Treatise of Politike Power, in which he put forward a theory of justified opposition to secular rulers. 
noLabel	In the United States, elections are held between every three and six years in most states, with exceptions such as the U.S. House of Representatives, which stands for election every two years.	There is a variety of schedules, for example presidents: the President of Ireland is elected every seven years, the President of Russia and the President of Finland every six years, the President of France every five years, President of United States every four years. 
noLabel	Throughout education in the UK, the vast majority of state-funded schools are under the control of local councils (Local Education Authorities in England and Wales, Department of Education in Northern Ireland), and are referred to in official literature as "maintained schools".	The exceptions are a minority of secondary schools in England funded directly by central government, known as academies and City Technology Colleges. 
noLabel	Historians of science including John Hedley Brooke and Ronald Numbers consider the "religion vs. science" concept an oversimplification, and prefer to take a more nuanced view of the subject .	These historians cite, for example, the Galileo affair and the Scopes trial, and assert that these were not purely instances of conflict between science and religion; personal and political factors also weighed heavily in the development of each.
noLabel	The Divis flats complex in west Belfast was built in between 1968 and 1972 was demolished in the early 1990s as the residents demanded new houses due to mounting problems with the flats.	Divis Tower, built separately in 1966, still stands, however; and, in 2007, work began to convert the former British Army base at the top two floors into new dwellings. 
noLabel	Before World War II, major tensions arose from the first, monarchist Yugoslavia's multi-ethnic makeup and absolute political and demographic domination of the Serbs.	The Yugoslav wars that took place between 1991 and 2001 were characterized by bitter ethnic conflicts between the peoples of the former Yugoslavia, mostly between Serbs on the one side and Croats, Bosnians or Albanians on the other; but also between Bosniaks and Croats in Bosnia and Macedonians and Albanians in the Republic of Macedonia. 
noLabel	The two types of criticism are not entirely separate: critics of the ideology behind a piece of aid are likely to see it as ineffective; and indeed, ineffectiveness must imply some flaws in the ideology.	Statistical studies have produced widely differing assessments of the correlation between aid and economic growth, and no firm consensus has emerged to suggest that foreign aid generally does boost growth.
noLabel	Some games turn inventory management into a logistical challenge by limiting the size of the player's inventory, thus forcing the player to decide what they must carry at the time .	This can be done by limiting the maximum weight that a player can carry, by employing a system of arranging items in a virtual space, or by simply limiting the number of items that can be held .
noLabel	It should also be remembered that slave revolts occurred elsewhere in the Greek world, and in 413 BC 20,000 Athenian slaves ran away to join the Spartan forces occupying Attica .	What made Sparta's relations with her slave population unique was that the helots, precisely because they enjoyed privileges such as family and property, retained their identity as a conquered people (the Messenians) and also had effective kinship groups that could be used to organize rebellion. 
noLabel	There is conflicting evidence about whether teacher assessments of student performance and ability are consistent with cognitive assessments like standardized tests.	Teacher assessment evidence comes from a relatively small number of classrooms when compared to standardized tests, which are administered in every public school in all fifty states .
noLabel	The towers, made of three support sections stacked on top of one another, and each weighing 20,000 pounds, are 262&nbsp;ft (80&nbsp;m) tall.	The blades attached to the hub of the turbine are about 115&nbsp;ft (35&nbsp;m) long — almost the wingspan of a Boeing 747 jet-liner.
noLabel	This moral or legislative public policy against violence has the indirect effect of encouraging players of all ages and especially younger players to play non-violent games, however it also produces something of a forbidden fruit effect.	For this and other reasons, the effectiveness of rating systems such as the ESRB to actually curb violent gameplay in youth gaming has been characterized as futile . 
noLabel	Since coming into power in 2010 the Conservative party under David Cameron is also promoting Mayor’s as a way of encouraging democratic engagement and decentralisation and is promising some new powers.	[1] There are as yet few specifics and the government expects that the new Mayors will themselves put proposals to central government setting out what powers they would like.
noLabel	Shortly after the new government took office, the new independent member Pauline Hanson made her maiden speech in which she was highly critical of multiculturalism, saying that a multicultural society could never be strong.	Notably, despite many calls for Howard to censure Hanson, his response was to state that her speech indicated a new freedom of expression in Australia on such issues.
noLabel	In the letter to Heydrich, Himmler said Germany could not afford to lose or silence Heisenberg as he would be useful for teaching a generation of scientists.	To Heisenberg, Himmler said the letter came on recommendation of his family and he cautioned Heisenberg to make a distinction between professional physics research results and the personal and political attitudes of the involved scientists.
noLabel	Kind plans to re-introduce the content of his failed amendment in the next farm bill, with his Healthy Farms and Forests Act of 2006.	This is the first farm bill to be proposed in the current cycle, and may form the foundation of the 2008 farm bill. 
noLabel	Pope John Paul II, who was present and very influential at the Vatican II (1962–65), affirmed the teachings of that Council and did much to implement them.	Nevertheless, his critics often wished that he would embrace the so-called "progressive" agenda that some hoped would evolve as a result of the Council.
noLabel	A side-effect of the Pascal-B nuclear test during Operation Plumbbob may have resulted in the first man-made object launched into space.	The so-called "thunder well" effect from the underground explosion may have launched a metal cover plate into space at six times earth's escape velocity, although the evidence remains subject to debate.
noLabel	Author and political scientist Larry J. Sabato is also a proponent of this plan, but his proposal would have the order of regional primaries determined by lottery on January 1 of each presidential election year instead of on a rotating basis.	In addition, his plan would allow for a few small population states to hold their primaries in advance of the first region to allow for some of the benefits of the current system such as Iowa and New Hampshire voters closely vetting each candidate. 
noLabel	One common feature of RPGs from this era, which Matt Barton calls the "Golden Age" of computer RPGs, is the use of numbered "paragraphs" printed in the manual or adjunct booklets, containing the game's lengthier texts; the player could be directed to read a certain paragraph, instead of being shown the text on screen.	The ultimate exemplar of this approach was Sirtech's Star Saga trilogy (of which only two games were released); the first game contained 888 "textlets" (usually much longer than a single paragraph) spread across 13 booklets, while the second contained 50,000 paragraphs spread across 14 booklets.
noLabel	Under the direction of General Leslie Groves, over thirty different sites were constructed for the research, production, and testing of components related to bomb making.	These included the scientific laboratory Los Alamos (in New Mexico), under the direction of physicist Robert Oppenheimer, a plutonium production facility, Hanford (in Washington), and a uranium enrichment facility, Oak Ridge (in Tennessee). 
noLabel	However, the lawyer who organized the plaintiffs, Robert Levy, told the Washington Post he is "not a member of any of those pro-gun groups", and the case was funded only by him .	The NRA has since been a party to a lawsuit contesting the emergency legislation enacted by the D.C. government, claiming it violates the Constitution by continuing to ban all semi-automatic handguns, and by requiring that any firearm in the home be disassembled, unloaded, and locked away unless there is an immediate threat of violence . 
noLabel	If modest amounts of cash and land can be combined with a modicum of agricultural skills in a temperate climate, subsistence can give way toward modest societal wealth.	As has been mentioned, education for women will allow for reduced family size—an important poverty reduction event in its own right.
noLabel	A sea-change in government, such as a shift in control of the legislature from one political party to the other, can affect the lobbying business profoundly.	For example, the primarily Democratic-serving lobbying firm Cassidy & Associates learned that control of Congress would change hands from Democrats to Republicans in 1994, and the firm acquired Republican lobbyists before the congressional handover of power, and the move helped the lobbying firm stay on top of the new political realities .
noLabel	The United States economy experienced a crisis in 2008 led by a derivatives market and subprime mortgage crisis, and a declining dollar value .	On December 1, 2008, the NBER declared that the United States entered a recession in December 2007, citing employment and production figures as well as the third quarter decline in GDP .
noLabel	This decision was especially significant, because, of the three books mentioned, Fanny Hill has by far the largest measure of content that seems to appeal to prurient interest, and the smallest measures of literary merit and "redeeming social importance".	Whereas an expurgated version of Lady Chatterley's Lover had actually once been published, no expurgated version of Fanny Hill has ever been (and it is difficult even to imagine what such a work could possibly consist of).
noLabel	Latma TV, an initiative of the Center for Security Policy, a staunchly conservative organization located in Washington, D.C., produced a video entitled We Con the World and set to the tune of the 1985 hit, "We Are the World".	The video, which is published on the internet, satirizes the political intentions of the activists aboard the MV Mavi Marmara with up to a dozen members of the so-called "Flotilla Choir"&mdash; some wearing a variation of traditional Arab dress—sing satirical verses, such as: "There's no people dying, so the best that we can do is create the biggest bluff of all.
noLabel	Similarly, the Dalai Lama said "If someone has a gun and is trying to kill you, it would be reasonable to shoot back with your own gun."	(May 15, 2001, The Seattle Times) speaking at the "Educating Heart Summit" in Portland, Oregon, when asked by a girl how to react when a shooter takes aim at a classmate. 
noLabel	The UN, Human Rights Watch and many other international bodies and NGOs consider Israel to be the occupying power of the Gaza Strip as Israel controls Gaza's airspace and territorial waters, and does not allow the movement of goods in or out of Gaza by air or sea (only by land) .	However, the border crossing into Egypt is not controlled by Israel; similar to Israel, Egypt has alternately restricted or allowed goods and people to cross that terrestrial border.
noLabel	" Despite the U.S. saying it would use all elements of its national power to deal with Tehran's actions, Iran said the launch was a step to remove the scientific monopoly certain world countries are trying to impose on the world .	Iraqi National Security Advisor Muwafaq al-Rubaie said Iraq was very pleased with the launch of Iran's peaceful data-processing national satellite . 
noLabel	The Noble and Holy Order of the Knights of Labor (KOL) was founded in Philadelphia in 1869 by Uriah Stephens and six other men.	The union was formed for the purpose of organizing the flyers, educating and directing the power of the industrial masses, according to their Constitution of 1878 .
noLabel	The IAEA as an autonomous organization is not under direct control of the UN, but the IAEA does report to both the UN General Assembly and Security Council.	Unlike most other specialized international agencies, the IAEA does much of its work with the Security Council, and not with the United Nations Economic and Social Council.
noLabel	In the year, leading up to Kamm's arrest, Blau also published another article regarding Defense Minister Ehud Barak and Chief of Staff Gaby Ashkenazi .	The reporter claimed that Barak, on becoming minister, had transferred his private consulting company to his three daughters, violating the regulation allowing such a transfer only if the daughters were actually employed by the company.
noLabel	The initial usage of the term capitalism in its modern sense has been attributed to Louis Blanc in 1850 and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon in 1861 .	Marx and Engels referred to the capitalistic system (kapitalistisches System) and to the capitalist mode of production (kapitalistische Produktionsform) in Das Kapital (1867) .
noLabel	The British Medical Association (BMA) states that "it is now widely accepted, including by the BMA, that this surgical procedure has medical and psychological risks.	" Milos and Macris (1992) argue that circumcision encodes the perinatal brain with violence and negatively affects infant-maternal bonding and trust .
noLabel	Except when it is undergoing maintenance and the water is bypassed around the turbines, the plant will always be generating at least 5&nbsp;MW.	Some plants have a small turbine for these releases because it is inefficient to run a little bit of water through a large turbine.
noLabel	In contrast to the neo-Platonic and Christian approach, moreover, Talmudic thought does not "make any legal distinction between formed and unformed foetuses.	" Feldman, likewise, is emphatically comparative, saying: ".. while Christianity's position on abortion has raised the moral level of western civilization in this regard and has succeeded in sensitizing humanity to a greater reverence for life, it is obviously comprised, at the same time, of theological postulates which the Jewish community can not share."
noLabel	Many demonstrations against the strikes occurred in cities around the world, and in Israel protests both for and against the strikes were held .	In Egypt, the protests caused the government to reopen the Rafah border crossing to allow the delivery of food and medicine to the Gaza Strip . 
noLabel	Countries on the Arabian peninsula tend to have a 'natural' ratio of about 1.05 at birth but a very high ratio of males for those over 65 (Saudi Arabia 1.13, Arab Emirates 2.73, Qatar 2.84), indicating either an above-average mortality rate for females or a below-average mortality for males, or, more likely in this case, a large population of aging male guest workers.	Conversely, countries of Eastern Europe (the Baltic states, Belarus, Ukraine, Russia) tend to have a 'normal' ratio at birth but a very low ratio of males among those over 65 (Russia 0.46, Latvia 0.48, Ukraine 0.52); similarly, Armenia has a far above average male ratio at birth (1.17), and a below-average male ratio above 65 (0.67).
noLabel	To help people who are denied coverage by insurance companies due to pre-existing conditions, McCain would work with states to create what he calls a "Guaranteed Access Plan".	He did not provide details, but pointed to states such as Florida and North Carolina where such systems are in place .
noLabel	However, he also criticized the Turkish government and told Turkish television, “The European Union and the United States consider Hamas a terror organization.	We must be careful.” He demanded that the government release communications with Israel prior to the incident, suggesting it allowed the flotilla to proceed despite knowing that violence was likely .
noLabel	However, Saffer and Chaloupka's empirical results are largely due to "data mining" and do not account for endogeneity of bans .	A meta-analysis of the econometric literature is found in J.P. Nelson, "Cigarette Advertising Regulation: A Meta-Analysis," International Review of Law and Economics, 26(2), June 2006, pp.
noLabel	In 1974, the Federal Communications Commission stated that the Congress had delegated it the power to mandate a system of "access, either free or paid, for person or groups wishing to express a viewpoint on a controversial public issue.." but that it had not yet exercised that power because licensed broadcasters had "voluntarily" complied with the "spirit" of the doctrine.	It warned that: "Should future experience indicate that the doctrine [of 'voluntary compliance'] is inadequate, either in its expectations or in its results, the Commission will have the opportunity—and the responsibility—for such further reassessment and action as would be mandated ."
noLabel	Article VII of the proposed constitution stipulated that only nine of the thirteen states would have to ratify for the new government to go into effect (for the participating states).	After a year had passed in state-by-state ratification battles, on September 13, 1788, the Articles Congress certified that the new Constitution had been ratified.
noLabel	The strategic alliance was however timed and both DLC episodes and the compilation pack were released on 13 April 2010 on PS3 and PC .	The expansion adds some new elements to the existing game and focuses on Johnny Klebitz, the vice president of "The Lost" motorcycle gang. 
noLabel	Commenting on the EU's 2020 renewable energy target, Helm is critical of how the costs of wind power are cited by lobbyists .	Helm also says that wind's problem of intermittent supply will probably lead to another dash-for-gas or dash-for-coal in Europe, possibly with a negative impact on energy security . 
noLabel	Culture conflict theory, derived from the pioneering work of sociologist Thorsten Sellin, emphasizes the role of culturally accepted norms of conduct in the formation of cultural groups and the conflicts which arise through their interaction.	Culture conflict theory argues that the group with the most power in any society ensures that their values, traditions and behaviors, which Sellin referred to as "conduct norms", are those to which all other members of society are forced to conform, and any actions which conflict with the interests of the dominant group are identified as deviant and/or criminal in nature.
noLabel	The German speed skater and five-fold Olympic gold medalist Claudia Pechstein was banned for two years in 2009 for alleged blood doping, based on irregular levels of reticulocytes in her blood; these levels were always highest during competitions.	Her mean reticulocyte count over the ten years from 2000 to 2009 was 2.1% during top events like Olympic Games and during world championships.
noLabel	Unlike most constitutional monarchies, the Emperor is not even the nominal chief executive explicitly in the Constitution of Japan, but has duties "in matters of state", which are closely regulated.	The constitution states that the Emperor "shall perform only such acts in matters of state as are provided for in the Constitution and he shall not have powers related to government" (article 4) and that the "advice and approval of the Cabinet shall be required for all acts of the Emperor in matters of state" (article 3).
noLabel	In Canada, advocates like Graham Spry were likewise able to persuade the federal government to adopt a public funding model, creating the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation.	However, in the United States, the capitalist model prevailed with the passage of the Communications Act of 1934 which created the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) .
noLabel	The charter approach uses market principles from the private sector, including accountability and consumer choice, to offer new public sector options that remain nonsectarian and non-exclusive.	Many people, such as former President Bill Clinton, see charter schools, with their emphasis on autonomy and accountability, as a workable political compromise and an alternative to vouchers.
noLabel	In American politics this translated into demands to avoid "bomber gaps" and "missile gaps" where the Soviet Union could potentially "out shoot" the Americans.	It also encouraged the production of thousands of nuclear weapons by both the U.S. and the USSR, far more than needed to simply destroy the major civilian and military infrastructures of the opposing country. 
noLabel	According to the agreement, a list of its nuclear programs will be submitted and the nuclear facility will be disabled in exchange for fuel aid and normalization talks with the U.S. and Japan .	This had been delayed from April due to a dispute with the United States over Banco Delta Asia, but on July 14, International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors confirm the shutdown of North Korea's Yongbyon nuclear reactor . 
noLabel	Regarding the planning and organization of the IDF mission to enforce the blockade, the commission stated that violent opposition to the boarding was not anticipated, and this had a direct impact on the operational tactics, rules of engagement, and training before the operation.	However, the focus of the planning and organization of the operation on a lower level of resistance did not lead to a breach of international law, the commission said .
noLabel	If the first child is a girl, and they are able to have a second child, then a couple may take extraordinary steps to assure that the second child is a boy.	If a couple already has two or more boys, the sex ratio of higher parity births swings decidedly in a feminine direction . 
noLabel	The Supreme Court held that the UC Davis medical school admissions program violated the equal protection clause with the institution of quotas for underrepresented minorities.	However, Justice Lewis Powell's decision in the majority upheld diversity in higher education as a "compelling interest" and held that race could be one of the factors in university admissions. 
noLabel	The modern system of near-universal national conscription for young men dates to the French Revolution in the 1790s, where it became the basis of a very large and powerful military.	Most European nations later copied the system in peacetime, so that men at a certain age would serve 1–3 years on active duty, then transfer to the reserve force. 
noLabel	The first and second years of secondary school (abbreviated to S1 and S2) is a continuation of the 5-14 curriculum started in primary school.	After which students choose which subjects they wish to study with certain compulsory subjects such as English and Mathematics for S3 and S4.
noLabel	There are more reasons to why there could be less fear online than it is easier to find groups with similar views.	Less fear of isolation online might also be due to the fact that in an online setting, it is easier to retreat from the conversation.
noLabel	In September 2010, German government policy shifted back toward nuclear energy, and this generated some new anti-nuclear sentiment in Berlin and beyond .	On September 18, 2010, tens of thousands of Germans surrounded Chancellor Angela Merkel’s office in an anti-nuclear demonstration that organisers said was the biggest of its kind since the Chernobyl disaster in 1986 . 
noLabel	He was also head of the research department of the HWA, assistant secretary of the Science Department of the OKW, and Bevollmächtigter (plenipotentiary) for high explosives.	Diebner, throughout the life of the nuclear energy project, had more control over nuclear fission research than did Walther Bothe, Klaus Clusius, Otto Hahn, Paul Harteck, or Werner Heisenberg .
noLabel	On various measures for improved relations between the Civil Service and the public and on various arrangements of administrative, social and fiscal nature).	It sets as a general rule that citizens can demand a copy of any administrative document (in paper, digitized or other form).
noLabel	Norman Finkelstein, a political scientist, wrote that Cordesman's study lacked credibility as it is based almost entirely on official Israeli sources and ignored information that was readily available from the UN, NGOs and news reports .	As stated in the Cordesman report, he relied exclusively on information provided by official Israeli sources, noting that Palestinian authorities in Gaza could provide primarily ideological and propaganda statements" .
noLabel	The notion that the expression of dissent or subversive views should be tolerated, not censured or punished by law, developed alongside the rise of printing and the press.	Areopagitica, published in 1644, was John Milton's response to the Parliament of England's re-introduction of government licensing of printers, hence publishers .
noLabel	One of the stated casus belli for the initiation of the 2003 Iraq War was an accusation by the United States that Iraq was actively pursuing nuclear arms (though this was soon discovered not to be the case as the program had been discontinued).	In 1981, Israel had bombed a nuclear reactor being constructed in Osirak, Iraq, in what it called an attempt to halt Iraq's previous nuclear arms ambitions; in 2007, Israel bombed another reactor being constructed in Syria.
noLabel	Recipients of a doctoral degree tend to have the most elaborate academic dress, and hence there is the greatest diversity at this level.	In the U.S., doctoral gowns are similar to the gowns worn by master's graduates, with the addition of velvet stripes across the sleeves and running down the front of the gown which may be tinted with the disciplinary color for the degree received.
noLabel	The cost in the UK of connecting new offshore wind in transmission terms, has been consistently put by Grid/DECC/Ofgem at £15billion by 2020.	This £15b cost does not include the cost of any new connections to Europe - interconnectors, or a supergrid, as advocated by some.
noLabel	Similarly, nearly all AFI agents evaded punishment and arrest due to the corrupt executive and judiciary system and the supremacy of these agencies.	The Attorney General's Office reported in December 2005 that one-fifth of its officers were under investigation for criminal activity, and that nearly 1,500 of AFI's 7,000 
noLabel	Paul's “Restore America” budget plan, which he laid out in October 2011, calls for the immediate elimination of the Department of Education.	College Pell grants and other federal financial aid programs would be transferred to another branch of government during a transition period, following which all federal financial aid for education would be eliminated .
noLabel	Accordingly, libertarian socialists believe that "the exercise of power in any institutionalized form—whether economic, political, religious, or sexual—brutalizes both the wielder of power and the one over whom it is exercised" .	Libertarian socialists generally place their hopes in decentralized means of direct democracy such as libertarian municipalism, citizens' assemblies, trade unions and workers' councils . 
noLabel	The ages at which these various rights or powers may be exercised vary as between the various rights and as between different jurisdictions.	For example, the ages at which a person may obtain a license to drive a car or consume alcoholic beverages vary considerably between and also within jurisdictions. 
noLabel	Free Skool Santa Cruz in California is perhaps typical of the current batch of free schools that are explicitly rooted in an anarchist tradition of collectivism, self-reliance, and mutual support, and feature informal, non-authoritarian learning outside of the monetary economy.	From the Free Skool Santa Cruz website: "More than just an opportunity to learn, we see Free Skool as a direct challenge to dominant institutions and hierarchical relationships.
noLabel	International groups are studying much higher penetrations (30-75%, corresponding to up to 20% of national electricity consumption) and preliminary conclusions are that these levels are also technically feasible .	In the UK, one summary of other studies indicated that if assuming that wind power contributed less than 20% of UK power consumption, then the intermittency would cause only moderate cost . 
noLabel	Girls are more likely than boys to say they have made a conscious decision to wait (81% vs. 67%) and are more likely to believe they are too young (82% vs. 67%).	Girls who date or hang out with older boys have a higher correlation with substance abuse and a combination of sex and drug use .
noLabel	The inclusion of sex and nudity in video games has been a controversial topic since the early days of the industry.	While many games have used scantily clad images or characters to sell or enhance games (see sex in advertising), this article deals with games that use sex acts or nudity as a character motivation, in-game reward, or simply as a gameplay element.
noLabel	The majority of this energy is derived from fossil fuels: in 2005, it was estimated that 40% of the nation's energy came from petroleum, 23% from coal, and 23% from natural gas.	Nuclear power supplied 8.4% and renewable energy supplied 6.8%, which was mainly from hydroelectric dams although other renewables are included .
noLabel	In an inconsistent comparison, an item is compared with many others, but only compared with each on the attributes where it wins, leaving the false impression that it's the best of all products, in all ways.	One variation on this theme is web sites which also list some competitor prices for any given search, but don't list those competitors which beat their price (or the web site might compare their own sale prices with the regular prices offered by their competitors).
noLabel	The "", established in 2006, is a network of more than 300 civil society organisations (CSOs) that is committed to promoting the ratification, implementation and monitoring of the UNCAC.	It aims to mobilise broad civil society support for the UNCAC and to facilitate strong civil society action at national, regional and international levels in support of the Convention.
noLabel	but there are differences of opinion about how long this should continue, and how the foreskin should be treated if it remains too tight for too long.	Gairdner published data regarding the age of first foreskin retraction in 1949 that is now thought by some to be incorrect.
noLabel	He did however add this caveat, "Let me emphasize that this note is not a plea for a return to a gold standard..	I regard a return to a gold standard as neither desirable nor feasible—with the one exception that it might become feasible if the doomsday predictions of hyperinflation under our present system should prove correct.
noLabel	The International Chamber of Shipping (ICS), an association which represents 75 percent of the world's merchant fleet, has expressed "deep concern" over the boarding by Israeli forces in international waters.	"The fundamental principles of international law, safe passage and freedom of navigation in international waters, must always be upheld by all of the world's nations", the organization said .
noLabel	Dawkins argues that religious ideologies are a set of ideas and concepts working together to ensure the perpetuation and proliferation of the religion itself.	For instance, important concepts in Christianity are raising one's children to be Christians, following The Great Commission and its monotheistic nature.
noLabel	|- Singapore called on all parties in Gaza to exercise maximum restraint and work towards an early re-establishment of the cease-fire, the country's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement on Monday night.	"We are deeply concerned about the situation in Gaza with mounting civilian casualties and the possibility of a humanitarian catastrophe", a spokesman of the ministry said in the statement .
noLabel	Sweat patches are attached to the skin to collect sweat over a long period of time (up to 14 days) .	These are almost exclusively used by child protective services, parole departments, and other government institutions concerned with drug use over long periods, when urine testing is not practical .
noLabel	Some strip malls are undergoing a transformation into Lifestyle centres; entailing investments in common areas and facilities (plazas, cafes) and shifting tenancy from daily goods to recreational shopping.	European countries such as France, Belgium and Germany have implemented size restrictions for superstores found in strip malls in an effort to limit sprawl (Davies 1995).
noLabel	In 2007, McCain sided with Bush against Florida Republicans in opposing a Congressional override of Bush's veto of a water projects bill that would have approved $2 billion for restoration of the Everglades, despite $7.8 billion that had been earmarked for the Comprehensive Everglades Restoration Plan (CERP) in 2000.	The State of Florida has, since the passing of CERP, spent $2 billion on CERP initiatives, though the federal government has declined to fund initiatives written in CERP .
noLabel	The possession of second strike capabilities counters a first strike nuclear threat and can support a no first use nuclear strategy.	Reciprocal second strike capabilities usually cause a mutual assured destruction defence strategy, though one side may have a lower level minimal deterrence response. 
noLabel	The Persian physician Muhammad ibn Zakarīya Rāzi was the first to write about concussion as distinct from other types of head injury in the 10th&nbsp;century AD .	He may have been the first to use the term "cerebral concussion", and his definition of the condition, a transient loss of function with no physical damage, set the stage for the medical understanding of the condition for centuries .
noLabel	When John L. Sullivan made boxing under Queensbury rules with gloved hands popular, his matches were of a pre-determined length and the referee would decide the winner if they went the distance .	If a match reached the prescribed limit without a formal result then the result would be "no-decision", though one boxer might be considered the winner by popular acclaim—a "newspaper win."
noLabel	On April 23, 2007, McCain gave a major speech on his energy policy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in the Ronald Reagan Building & International Trade Center in Washington, D.C.	He said that U.S. dependence on foreign oil is "a major strategic vulnerability, a serious threat to our security, our economy and the well-being of our planet," explicitly connecting energy independence with national security, climate change, and the environment . 
noLabel	China during the era of the Han Dynasty had established Confucianism as the official state ideology over that of Legalism of the preceding Qin Dynasty over two millennium ago .	In post-1949 modern-day China, owing to such historic experiences as the Taiping Rebellion, the Chinese Communist Party had no diplomatic relations with the Vatican for over half a century, and maintained separation of the church from state affairs, and although the Chinese government's methods are disputed by the Vatican, Pope Benedict had accepted the ordination of a bishop who was pre-selected by the government for the Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association in 2007, however a new ordination of a Catholic bishop in November 2010 according to BBC News, has threatened to "damage ties" between China and the Vatican .
noLabel	" Former Russian Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov has also said after the public publications of the documents "Russia has no concrete information that Iran is planning to construct a weapon" .	Russia's representative to the IAEA, Alexander Zmeyevskiy, has noted that though the IAEA is in possession of these documents, the IAEA's findings "do not contain any conclusions about the presence of undeclared nuclear activities in Iran.
noLabel	The district court ruled in McCorvey's favor on the merits, and declined to grant an injunction against the enforcement of the laws barring abortion .	The district court's decision was based upon the Ninth Amendment, and the court relied upon a concurring opinion by Justice Arthur Goldberg in the 1965 Supreme Court case of Griswold v. Connecticut, finding in the decision for a right to privacy .
noLabel	It cites forensic analysis indicating that Furgan Dogan was shot five times, including once in the face while he was lying on his back.	"All of the entry wounds were on the back of his body except for the face wound, which entered the right of his nose", the report concluded.
noLabel	On 28 September, after the killing of Japanese photographer Kenji Nagai by the junta, Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda said he regretted the killing and demanded a full explanation of his death.	The Association of Southeast Asian Nations was urged to join the push for a UN mission to Myanmar, while the United Nations Security Council urged restraint from the government. 
noLabel	Many nations formerly with absolute monarchies, such as Morocco, have moved towards constitutional monarchy, although in some cases the monarch retains tremendous power, to the point that the parliament's influence on political life is negligible.	In Bhutan, the government moved from absolute monarchy to constitutional monarchy following planned parliamentary elections to the Tshogdu in 2003, and the election of a National Assembly in 2008. 
noLabel	In 2008, China's National Population and Family Planning Commission said that the policy will remain in place for at least another decade .	In 2010, it was announced that the majority of the citizens initially subject to the policy are no longer of reproductive age and it has been speculated that many citizens simply disregard or violate the policy in more recent years.
noLabel	President Pervez Musharraf and Prime minister Shaukat Aziz acknowledged in 2005 that Khan had provided centrifuges and their designs to North Korea .	On May 30, 2008, ABC News reported that Khan, who previously confessed to his involvement with Iran and North Korea, now denies involvement with the spread of nuclear arms to those countries.
noLabel	An example is provided by the 12th century Speculum Virginum (Mirror of Virgins in Latin) document which provides one of the earliest comprehensive theologies of cloistered religious life .	The growth of the various manuscript of the Speculum Virginum in the Middle Ages had a particular resonance for women who sought a dedicated religious life.
noLabel	A 2011 report by the Hauser Center for Nonprofit Organizations found that while constrained by donor restrictions on contact with the Myanmar government, international humanitarian Non Governmental Organizations (NGOs) see opportunities for effective advocacy with government officials, especially at the local level.	At the same time, International NGOs are mindful of the ethical quandary of how to work with the government without bolstering or appeasing it . 
noLabel	Despite arguments by defense leaders that they had no interest in re-instituting the draft, Representative Neil Abercrombie's (D-HI) inclusion of a DOD memo in the Congressional Record which detailed a meeting by senior leaders signaled renewed interest.	Though the conclusion of the meeting memo did not call for a reinstatement of the draft, it did suggest Selective Service Act modifications to include registration by women and self-reporting of critical skills that could serve to meet military, homeland-defense, and humanitarian needs .
noLabel	During the Partition of India 6 million Muslims fled genocide taking place in India to come to what became Pakistan and 5 million Hindus and Sikhs fled from what became Pakistan into India.	The events which occurred during this time period have been described as ethnic cleansing by Ishtiaq Ahmed (an associate professor in the Department of Political Science, Stockholm University)  . 
noLabel	The French/Algerian journalist Mohammed Sifaoui secretly filmed Ahmed Akkari, spokesman for the group of Danish Imams that toured the Middle East, in conversation with Sheikh Raed Hlayhel (head of the 2nd delegation), speculating that if MP Naser Khader ever became a minister, that two men would show up and have him and his ministry bombed .	Ahmad Abu Laban was also filmed talking about a man who wants "to wreak absolute havoc" and "wants to join the fray and turn it into a Martyr operation right now.
noLabel	" A 2005 paper found that in Connecticut, which it characterized as having been highly selective in approving charter applications, a relatively large proportion of poorly performing charter schools have closed .	Under Connecticut's relatively weak charter law, only 21 charter schools have opened in all, and of those, five have closed .
noLabel	Aside from the possibility that they may be intercepted and deported, some considerably more dangerous outcomes have been known to result from their activity.	As an example, unauthorized immigrants may be trafficked for exploitation including sexual exploitation and some illegal immigrants are involved in broader criminal activity.
noLabel	Manning reportedly told Lamo he had leaked the "Collateral Murder" video, in addition to a video of the Granai airstrike and around 260,000 diplomatic cables, to WikiLeaks .	In July, WikiLeaks released 92,000 documents related to the war in Afghanistan between 2004 and the end of 2009 to The Guardian, The New York Times and Der Spiegel.
noLabel	Its name is derived from the frequent shifts in the business cycle although unemployment can also be persistent as occurred during the Great Depression of the 1930s.	With cyclical unemployment, the number of unemployed workers exceeds the number of job vacancies, so that even if full employment were attained and all open jobs were filled, some workers would still remain unemployed.
noLabel	York University scholar of human rights and humanitarian law Professor Anne Bayefsky said that the report, which claims to be a human rights document, never mentions the racist, genocidal intent of the enemy, which Israel confronted after years of restraint.	She added that the report relies on testimonies from witnesses speaking under circumstances that gave rise to "a fear of reprisals" from Hamas should they have dared to tell the truth . 
noLabel	There is a trend towards global harmonization of patent laws, with the World Trade Organization (WTO) being particularly active in this area.	The TRIPs Agreement has been largely successful in providing a forum for nations to agree on an aligned set of patent laws.
noLabel	McDowall cites methodological issues with the Kleck studies, stating that Kleck used a very small sample size and did not confine self-defense to attempted victimizations where physical attacks had already commenced .	The former criticism, however, is inaccurate — Kleck's survey with Marc Gertz in fact used the largest sample size of any survey that ever asked respondents about defensive gun use — 4,977 cases, far more than is typical in national surveys .
noLabel	Advocates of this philosophy point to the many well-known artists and intellectuals who have used drugs, experimentally or otherwise, with few detrimental effects on their lives.	Critics argue that the drugs are escapist — and dangerous, unpredictable and sometimes addictive, and have negative and profound effects in geographic areas well beyond the location of the user.
noLabel	Three judges will give judgment on an appeal by the British Boxing Board of Control against a high court decision which awarded Watson 1m after a fight with Chris Eubank in 1991 left him partly paralysed.	In a case of vital importance to other sporting bodies, the BBBC, which went into administrative receivership after the high court ruling, has argued that it owed Watson no duty of care. 
noLabel	It is a cloth icon of Christ's body taken down from the cross, and typically has the relics of a saint sewn into it.	In addition, it is signed by the parish's bishop, and represents his authorization and blessing for the Eucharist to be celebrated on that altar.
noLabel	According to the surveys of Phil Zuckerman on Adherents.com; in 1993, 59% (over 700 million) of the Chinese population was irreligious but in the newest survey (same author) in 2005, it was only 14% (over 180 million) .	There are intrinsic logistical difficulties in trying to count the number of religious people anywhere, as well as difficulties peculiar to China.
noLabel	The Missionary Church of Kopimism (in Swedish Missionerande Kopimistsamfundet), founded by 19-year-old philosophy student Isak Gerson, is a congregation of file sharers who claim that copying information is a sacred virtue .	The Church, based in Sweden, has been officially recognized by the Swedish Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Agency ("kammarkollegiet") as a religious community, after three application attempts . 
noLabel	Many groups and movements have achieved profound social changes over the course of the 20th century in the name of human rights.	In Europe and North America, labour unions brought about laws granting workers the right to strike, establishing minimum work conditions and forbidding or regulating child labor.
noLabel	Additionally, bribes may be offered by cities in order to secure athletic franchises, or even competitions, as happened with the 2002 Winter Olympics.	It is common practice for cities to "bid" against each other with stadiums, tax benefits, and licensing deals to secure or keep professional sports franchises. 
noLabel	In effect, Easterly would have countries go to the area which needed aid, collect information about the problem, find out what the population wanted, and then work from there.	In keeping with this, funds would also be distributed from the bottom up, rather than being given to a specific government .
noLabel	Most notably, some studies have found that patients with Alzheimer's disease are more likely not to have smoked than the general population, which has been interpreted to suggest that smoking offers some protection against Alzheimer's.	However, the research in this area is limited and the results are conflicting; some studies show that smoking increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease.
noLabel	Another apologetical school of thought, a sort of synthesis of various existing Dutch and American Reformed thinkers (such as, Abraham Kuyper, Benjamin Warfield, Herman Dooyeweerd), emerged in the late 1920s.	This school was instituted by Cornelius Van Til, and came to be popularly called Presuppositional apologetics (though Van Til himself felt "transcendental" would be a more accurate title).
noLabel	Given this fact, it should come as no surprise that many immigrants welcomed the impending assimilation brought on by their host country.	Eager to begin their new lives, many did as much as they could to become "American" as quickly as possible, particularly children.
noLabel	The U.S. embassy stated, "The government of the United States has concluded that the circumstances of this case as presented by the government of Japan do not warrant departure from the standard practice as agreed between the United States and Japan.	" On December 10, 2002, the Okinawa Prefectural Assembly unanimously adopted a resolution calling on the United States to immediately transfer Brown to Japanese authorities and called on the Japanese national government to again demand Brown's immediate hand-over.
noLabel	An earlier draft by the Commission of Experts described ethnic cleansing as "the planned deliberate removal from a specific territory, persons of a particular ethnic group, by force or intimidation, in order to render that area ethnically homogenous."	which it based on "the many reports describing the policy and practices conducted in the former Yugoslavia, 'ethnic cleansing' has been carried out by means of murder, torture, arbitrary arrest and detention, extra-judicial executions, rape and sexual assaults, confinement of civilian population in ghetto areas, forcible removal, displacement and deportation of civilian population, deliberate military attacks or threats of attacks on civilians and civilian areas, and wanton destruction of property.
noLabel	The 20 largest (by turnover in 2007) companies registered in Sweden are Volvo, Ericsson, Vattenfall, Skanska, Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB, Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget, Electrolux, Volvo Personvagnar, TeliaSonera, Sandvik, Scania, ICA, Hennes & Mauritz, IKEA, Nordea, Preem, Atlas Copco, Securitas, Nordstjernan and SKF .	Sweden's industry is overwhelmingly in private control; unlike some other industrialised Western countries, such as Austria and Italy, publicly owned enterprises have always been of minor importance.
noLabel	The Russian writer Dostoevsky (himself a problem gambler) portrays in his novella The Gambler the psychological implications of gambling and how gambling can affect gamblers.	He also associates gambling and the idea of "getting rich quick", suggesting that Russians may have a particular affinity for gambling.
noLabel	The fraudsters calculated which wards they had no hope of winning, which they were almost sure of winning and which wards were marginal.	By manipulating Westminster Council's public housing stock, the fraudsters were able to move voters more likely to vote for their electoral rivals from marginal wards to the wards that they were going to lose anyway.
noLabel	Now the Supreme Court referred to the right to speak openly of violent action and revolution in broad terms: Brandenburg discarded the "clear and present danger" test introduced in Schenck and further eroded Dennis .	In Cohen v. California, , wearing a jacket reading "Fuck the Draft" in the corridors of the Los Angeles County courthouse was ruled not to be punishable.
noLabel	Chief Justice Burger asked Justices Stewart and Blackmun to determine whether Roe and Doe, among others, should be heard as scheduled.	According to Blackmun, Stewart felt that the cases were a straightforward application of Younger v. Harris and recommended that the Court move forward as scheduled . 
noLabel	In the case of China, because of deficiencies in the vital statistics registration system, studies of sex ratios at birth have relied either on special fertility surveys, whose accuracy depends on full reporting of births and survival of both male and female infants, or on the national population census from which both birth rates and death rates are calculated from the household's reporting of births and deaths in the 18 months preceding the census .	To the extent that this underreporting of births or deaths is sex-selective, both fertility surveys and censuses may inaccurately reflect the actual sex ratios at birth .
noLabel	Whereas most homes in Japan are made with wood and allow free-flow of air to combat humidity, typical modern homes in Okinawa are made from concrete with barred windows (protection from flying plant matter) to deal with regular typhoons.	Roofs are also designed with strong winds in mind, with each tile cemented on and not merely layered as seen with many homes elsewhere in Japan. 
noLabel	It is unlikely that a person would overdose on nicotine through smoking alone, although overdose can occur through combined use of nicotine patches or nicotine gum and cigarettes at the same time .	Spilling a high concentration of nicotine onto the skin can cause intoxication or even death, since nicotine readily passes into the bloodstream following dermal contact . 
noLabel	After Captain Cook's exploration of New Zealand in the late eighteenth century, an increasing number of European settlers came to New Zealand.	In 1833, with growing lawlessness amongst traders and settlers, the British government appointed James Busby as British Resident to protect British trading interests. 
noLabel	The ethical problems brought up by intellectual property rights are most pertinent when it is socially valuable goods like life-saving medicines and genetically modified seeds that are given intellectual property protection.	For example, pharmaceutical companies that produce, apply intellectual property rights in order to prevent other companies from manufacturing their product without the additional cost of research and development.
noLabel	One of the United Kingdom's most severe austerity measures came into the force of law on 9 December 2010: spending for higher education and tuition subsidies and assistance in English universities — historically rather substantial in scale — was cut by an astounding total of 80% .	That announcement and its implications, which included a near-tripling of student tuition fees from their previous levels up to a new ceiling of £9000/year, led to a huge backlash amongst students who almost immediately took to the streets over various non-sequential days against this announcement, squaring off with police on several occasions including an instance where some students angrily entered the Conservative headquarters and smashed windows and destroyed its interior .
noLabel	In January 2009, after the first phase of the Gaza War, Israel said it would allow in some humanitarian aid, but will continue its economic blockade in order to weaken the power of Hamas .	In June 2009, on the second anniversary of the blockade, 38 United Nations and non-governmental humanitarian organisations issued a joint press release calling for "free and uninhibited access for all humanitarian assistance in accordance with the international agreements and in accordance with universally recognised international human rights and humanitarian law standards" .
noLabel	From Milton's writings developed the concept of the open marketplace of ideas, the idea that when people argue against each other, the good arguments will prevail.	One form of speech that was widely restricted in England was seditious libel, and laws were in place that made criticizing the government a crime.
noLabel	One of the most persistant myths about Sparta that has no basis in fact is the notion that Spartan mothers were without feelings toward their off-spring and helped enforce a militaristic lifestyle on their sons and husbands .	The myth can be traced back to Plutarch, who includes no less than seventeen "sayings" of "Spartan women," all of which paraphrase or elaborate on the theme that Spartan mothers rejected their own offspring if they showed any kind of cowardice.
noLabel	Some argue that the Monarch's constitutional position (with the little-used power to dissolve or refuse a government) could safeguard against Britain ever becoming a dictatorship.	Examples of this include the 1981 April Fool's Day Coup in Thailand and the El Tejerazo coup in Spain when King Bhumibol and King Juan Carlos I respectively stepped in to restore democracy in their countries. 
noLabel	Although he had been able to receive medical care he required over the course of his illness, when he died the bills for that care amounted to about $400,000.	His friends, including Paul, were able to raise about $50,000, but that still left $350,000 to be passed to his estate — or left unpaid (and passed on to other consumers and taxpayers) .
noLabel	In presenting evidence to the Home Affairs Select Committee in 2005 the Registrar for the London Borough of Brent estimated that, between 2001 and February 2005, approximately 20% of all marriages in Brent were bogus, equating to approximately 250 marriages a year.	He suggested that the incidence of sham marriages increased dramatically in late 2003 and early 2004 and that marriages between foreign nationals and EEA nationals were a particular problem .
noLabel	As early as 1987, official policy granted local officials the flexibility to make exceptions and allow second children in the case of "practical difficulties" (such as cases in which the father is a disabled serviceman) or when both parents are single children, and some provinces had other exemptions worked into their policies as well .	Following the 2008 Sichuan earthquake, a new exception to the regulations was announced in Sichuan province for parents who had lost children in the earthquake .
noLabel	Michael Lerner, editor of Tikkun magazine, asserts that the equation of Criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism has resulted in conflict within the Jewish community, in particular, proponents of the equation sometimes attack Jewish critics of Israeli policies as "self-hating Jews" .	Lerner also claims that the equation of Criticism of Israel with anti-Semitism and the resulting charges of "self hating Jew" has resulted in the alienation of young Jews from their faith . 
noLabel	Throughout the 19th century, leading US statesmen, including Senator Henry Clay, bridged the differences between the two competing interests, and continued Hamilton's themes within the Whig Party under the name American System.	However, as more and more of the benefits accrued to northern interests, and ever higher tariffs were proposed by northern politicians, the tariff issue started widening the crack into a chasm between North and South. 
noLabel	Additionally, the Republicans contended that King County was three days past its federally mandated due date of October 10 to send out its absentee ballots to overseas military personnel, widely considered more likely to vote Republican.	The United States Postal Service Bulk Permit #1455 was used to mail 1,605 ballots on October 2, and 28,000 on October 13.
noLabel	In October 2011, documents were released that indicated Holder was sent memos in regards to Operation Fast and Furious in 2010, contradicting Holder's sworn testimony before the House Judiciary Committee in which he said he was unaware of Operation Fast and Furious until April 2011 .	In response, Lamar Smith, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to President Obama, requesting the appointment of an independent special counsel to investigate whether Holder committed perjury by lying to the committee while under oath . 
noLabel	Concerns for biodiversity loss covers a broader conservation mandate that looks at ecological processes, such as migration, and a holistic examination of biodiversity at levels beyond the species, including genetic, population and ecosystem diversity .	Extensive, systematic, and rapid rates of biodiversity loss threatens the sustained well-being of humanity by limiting supply of ecosystem services that are otherwise regenerated by the complex and evolving holistic network of genetic and ecosystem diversity.
noLabel	Though individuals have to show a continuous activity in a handguns sporting for last two years before they can have a license for their own gun.	Thus people wishing to have a handgun first have to shoot two years with someone else's gun or on commercial gun ranges that loan guns for use at their range.
noLabel	The beginnings of the modern-day UK immigration control can be traced from the final decade of the 19th Century and the political debate that grew surrounding the perceived growth in the numbers of Eastern European Jews coming to the UK.	Political alarm was also expressed regarding the rising numbers of foreign national criminals in UK prisons, the growing demands on poor relief within local parishes and fears of degenerating health and housing conditions . 
noLabel	Brazil has become a leading worldwide producer of grains including soybean, accounting for more than one-third of the country's gross national product.	This new driver of forest loss suggests that the rise and fall of prices for other crops, beef and timber may also have a significant impact on future land use in the region, according to the study .
noLabel	The latest proposal to change the structure of the postseason came from the Mountain West Conference at the Bowl Championship Series commissioners' annual spring meetings in Pasadena, California in conjunction with the Rose Bowl's staging the 2010 BCS title game.	The Mountain West Conference commissioner argued for a selection committee to replace the BCS ranking system, the establishment of an eight-team playoff, and a revision to the automatic qualifier rules . 
noLabel	An objection against the theist implication of the proposition is that even if one accepts the argument as a proof of a First Cause, it does not identify that First Cause with God.	The argument does not go on to ascribe to the First Cause some of the basic attributes commonly associated with, for instance, a theistic God, such as immanence or omnibenevolence .
noLabel	Alan Dershowitz in his analyses of the Report responded that as of January 2010 Goldstone had generally refused to reply substantively to credible critics of the Report and declined Dershowitz's offer to publicly debate Goldstone about its contents .	Goldstone referred to his experiences of South Africa to reject Israeli PM Netanyahu's arguments that the report would make peacemaking more difficult, saying that "truth-telling and acknowledgement to victims can be a very important assistance to peace" . 
noLabel	The game again sparked controversy throughout a period of school shootings in the United States when it was found that Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, who committed the Columbine High School massacre in 1999, were avid players of the game.	While planning for the massacre, Harris said that the killing would be "like fucking Doom", and "it'll be like the LA riots, the Oklahoma bombing, WWII, Vietnam, Duke Nukem and Doom all mixed together", and that his shotgun was "straight out of the game" .
noLabel	Globally, there are an estimated 3 million direct jobs in renewable energy industries, with about half of them in the biofuels industry .	According to a 2011 projection by the International Energy Agency, solar power generators may produce most of the world’s electricity within 50 years, dramatically reducing harmful greenhouse gas emissions .
noLabel	This plea dealt with the scheme the Fiesta Bowl was involved in to solicit from, and then reimburse, employees for political donations to politicians.	Two people still with the Fiesta Bowl pleaded guilty to misdemeanor charges of making a prohibited campaign contribution, each paying fines and being placed on probation for one year . 
noLabel	A male smoker in the United States that smokes more than one pack a day can expect an average increase of $19,000 just in medical expenses over the course of his lifetime.	A U.S. female smoker that also smokes more than a pack a day can expect an average of $25,800 additional healthcare costs over her lifetime .
noLabel	The case of Norman (Court of Appeal 1985) established that a person who sought entry as a visitor when his true intention was to claim asylum was an illegal entrant.	Had the Immigration Officer known on arrival that asylum was intended, then he would not have granted entry as a visitor.
noLabel	In The Restaurant at the End of the Universe, the second of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, it is revealed that the Galactic President, supposed leader of the Galaxy, is nothing more than a decoy meant to provide an illusion of democracy, while the real power is held by an old man who lives alone on a deserted planet and does not believe anything really exists outside his imagination.	He is regarded as the only suitable candidate since he is the only person who completely and honestly doesn't care about having power.
noLabel	Their academic degrees, which are not recognised in Greece, are directly provided to successful students by foreign universities in the United Kingdom, United States of America, or other countries, usually through franchise or validation agreements (the franchise agreement usually being considered better).	This has limited access to the laboratories, which usually teach in English, to high-income Greeks who for various reasons (usually family matters) did not want to go abroad. 
noLabel	Whenever a head of state is not available for any reason, constitutional provisions may allow the role to fall temporarily to an assigned person or collective body.	In a republic, this is - depending on provisions outlined by the constitution or improvised - a vice-president, the chief of government, the legislature or its presiding officer.
noLabel	One legend holds that the heroic ruler Theseus invented a form of boxing in which two men sat face to face and beat each other with their fists until one of them was killed.	In time, the boxers began to fight while standing and wearing gloves (with spikes) and wrappings on their arms below the elbows, but otherwise they fought naked. 
noLabel	When fully operational, the Global Centre for Pluralism will be located at 330 Sussex Drive in Ottawa, a building that served as the home of the Public Archives of Canada from 1906 to 1967 and the Canadian War Museum from 1967 to 2005.	The building was built from 1904 to 1906 and is designated a National Historic Site of Canada and a Classified Federal Heritage Building . 
noLabel	Some libertarians, particularly proponents of Austrian economics, including Stephan Kinsella, argue that copyright is invalid because, unlike physical property, intellectual property is not scarce and is, they claim, a legal fiction created by the state.	That is, infringing on copyright, unlike theft, does not deprive the victim of the original item, and so enforcement of copyright law constitutes aggression on the part of the state .
noLabel	Some, such as law experts Harvard Law School Professor Alan Dershowitz, Chicago Law School Professor Eric Posner, and Johns Hopkins International Law and Diplomacy Professor Ruth Wedgwood, said that the naval blockade, the boarding in international waters, and the use of force were in accord with long-standing international law .	Dershowitz compared the blockade with the U.S. blockade of Cuba during the Cuban Missile Crisis and Posner with the Coalition blockade of Iraq during the first Gulf War . 
noLabel	There are many of these installations around the world, particularly in developing nations as they can provide an economical source of energy without purchase of fuel .	Micro hydro systems complement photovoltaic solar energy systems because in many areas, water flow, and thus available hydro power, is highest in the winter when solar energy is at a minimum.
noLabel	The rider was Michel Pollentier, who that year was Belgian national champion and therefore wearing his national colours of red, yellow and black.	By the end of the stage which finished on Alpe d'Huez he had taken the race lead and could change his champion's jersey for the maillot jaune. 
noLabel	However, during the 19th century, West European colonial powers were involved in the suppression of the Arab slave trade in Africa, as well as in suppression of the slave trade in West Africa .	Other colonialists recognized the depravity of their actions but persisted for personal gain; some Europeans during the time period objected to the injustices caused by colonialism and lobbied on behalf of aboriginal peoples.
noLabel	Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi reiterated Japan's non-nuclear weapon principles and said that Japan would not possess a nuclear arsenal, and that the matter was not even worthy of discussion.	However, it is thought that Koizumi implied he agreed that Japan had the right to possess nuclear weapons when he added, "it is significant that although we could have them, we don't" . 
noLabel	Within France itself, the Revolution permanently crippled the power of the aristocracy and drained the wealth of the Church, although the two institutions survived despite the damage they sustained.	After the collapse of the First Empire in 1815, the French public lost the rights and privileges earned since the Revolution, but they remembered the participatory politics that characterized the period, with one historian commenting: "Thousands of men and even many women gained firsthand experience in the political arena: they talked, read, and listened in new ways; they voted; they joined new organizations; and they marched for their political goals.
noLabel	The Chartists from the mid 19th century, and the Suffragettes after the turn of the 20th century lobbied for universal suffrage against a conservative judiciary and a liberal political establishment.	In Nairn v The University Court of the University of St Andrews (1907), Lord McLaren even proclaimed that it is . 
noLabel	With discussions on a legislative program at a standstill, on June 11 Gray called together the seven members of the Gray Commission most in favor of "massive resistance.	" They agreed to support a legislative program in favor of "massive resistance" and met with Governor Stanley that night .
noLabel	One meta-analytic review  of pathological gaming studies concluded that about 3% of gamers may experience some symptoms of pathological gaming.	The report noted problems in the field with defining and measuring pathological gaming and concluded that pathological gaming behaviors were more likely the product of underlying mental health problems rather than the inverse. 
noLabel	In addition, there’s also a crime called “dissemination of information violating personal privacy” (Chapter 24, Section 8), that deals with the public dissemination of information that can harm one’s private life.	However, personalities involved in the fields of politics, business, public office or public position, “or in a comparable position”, are specifically not protected by this article .
noLabel	This is a frequently cited argument to explain how the North American Free Trade Association may have impoverished Mexican farmers who were unable to compete with the higher productivity of US subsidized agriculture, especially for corn.	NAFTA may have also unexpectedly raised educational requirements for industrial jobs in Mexico, since the new maquiladoras produced export products requiring skills and education that many unskilled workers did not have .
noLabel	In Argentina the National Universities, also called "Public or State-run Universities", is the name used to refer to all those institutions whose creation arose from the enactment of a National Congress Act, except for those whose creation preceded that of the state itself (as is the case of the National University of Córdoba and the University of Buenos Aires).	They lie as Public Law legal entities and their regular operation funding comes from the national state, pursuant to what is set out on the annual national budget act. 
noLabel	On 28 October 2008, the 66-foot yacht Dignity, manned by Free Gaza Movement activists and carrying medical supplies, docked in Gaza harbor.	Israel had initially decided to stop the vessel, but the decision was made to let it through just before it reached Gaza .
noLabel	The lack of strict tobacco control polices in developing countries sets up an environment where little to no advertising restrictions and taxation  are not in place to buffer the impending increase in smoking among women.	What puts women in developing regions at an even greater disadvantage is the significant shift in tobacco production to their areas, where they are mainly involved in the harvesting . 
noLabel	The term comes from the Greek word (dēmokratía) "rule of the people", which was coined from δῆμος (dēmos) "people" and κράτος (kratos) "power", in the middle of the 5th-4th century BC to denote the political systems then existing in some Greek city-states, notably Athens following a popular uprising in 508 BC .	Other cultures since Greece have significantly contributed to the evolution of democracy such as Ancient Rome, Europe, and North and South America .
noLabel	Index on Censorship published the stories of the ‘disappeared’ in Argentina and the work of banned poets in Cuba; the work of Chinese poets who escaped the massacres that ended the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989.	Index on Censorship has a long history of publishing writers in translation, including Bernard-Henri Lévy, Ivan Klima, Ma Jian and Nobel laureate Shirin Ebadi, and news reports including Anna Politkovskaia's coverage of the war in Chechnya (Issue 2/2002). 
noLabel	As Brian McRae, who played a decade in the majors before retiring in 1999, told me, They don't pay out those multimillion-dollar salaries for you to be walking around like a zombie.	Amphetamines have been part of the game since at least the 1950's and were once openly dispensed by team trainers, set out in jars like hard candy.
noLabel	One of the most notable effects of the adoption of the Charter was to greatly expand the scope of judicial review, because the Charter is more explicit with respect to the guarantee of rights and the role of judges in enforcing them than was the Bill of Rights.	The courts, when confronted with violations of Charter rights, have struck down unconstitutional federal and provincial statutes and regulations or parts of statutes and regulations, as they did when Canadian case law was primarily concerned with resolving issues of federalism.
noLabel	Members of Congress under FERS contribute 1.3% of their salary into the FERS retirement plan and pay 6.2% of their salary in Social Security taxes.	And like Federal employees, members contribute one-third of the cost of health insurance with the government covering the other two-thirds . 
noLabel	Since the Johnson Administration, marginal income taxes have been reduced from 91% for the wealthiest Americans in 1964 to 35% for the same group by 2003 under the Bush Administration .	Capital gains taxes have also decreased over the last several years but changes in their marginal rate have been less drastic.
noLabel	In Wales, Tom Wellingham, a student newspaper editor at Cardiff University, was suspended after publishing the caricature in Gair Rhydd, the Students' Union paper .	The College of DuPage student newspaper, The Courier, reprinted the cartoons when editorial cartoonist Scott Nychay gave a lecture on campus about the cartoons and the original incident in May 2006 .
noLabel	In 2004 the platforms of both the Democratic and Republican parties opposed military conscription, but neither party moved to end draft registration.	John Kerry in one debate criticized Bush's policies, "You've got stop-loss policies so people can't get out when they were supposed to.
noLabel	2) The State Government’s position is sustained by the fact that one of the most delicate subjects in the Lacandona region, the agrarian (land) reform and resulting conflicts over land and delocalisation of “informal settlements” (especially in the Montes Azules area – that is not part of Prodesis’ area of intervention), are falling under federal competence.	The Chiapas Government hence is not participating in the very tense negotiations between local communities and federal institutions on that issue. 
noLabel	Some programs, such as medicine and psychology, have formal apprenticeship procedures post-graduation, such as residencies and internships, which must be completed after graduation and before one is considered fully trained.	Other professional programs like law and business have no formal apprenticeship requirements after graduation (although law school graduates must take the bar exam to legally practice law in nearly all states). 
noLabel	The difference between an absolutist and an enlightened absolutist is based on a broad analysis of how far they embraced the Age of Enlightenment.	For example, although Empress Catherine II of Russia entirely rejected the concept of the social contract, she took up many ideas of the Enlightenment, being a great patron of the arts in Imperial Russia and incorporating many ideas of enlightened philosophes, especially Montesquieu, in her Nakaz, which was meant to revise Russian law. 
noLabel	In Switzerland, the crime of "calumny" is punished with a maximum term of three years in prison, or with a fine of at least 30 days-fine, according to Article 174-2 of the Swiss Criminal Code.	There is calumny when the offender knows the falsity of his/her allegations and intentionally looks to ruin the reputation of one’s victim (see Articles 174-1 and 174-2) . 
noLabel	Contemporary Sunni Islam generally forbids any pictorial representation of Muhammad, but has had periods allowing depictions of Muhammad's face covered with a veil or as a featureless void emanating light.	The Islamic Circle of North America (ICNA) has condemned the depiction of any prophet, from Adam to Moses to Jesus to Mohammed .
noLabel	In her State of the State address on January 17, 2008, Palin declared that the people of Alaska "can and must continue to develop our economy, because we cannot and must not rely so heavily on federal government [funding].	" Alaska's federal congressional representatives cut back on pork-barrel project requests during Palin's time as governor; despite this, in 2008 Alaska was still the largest per-capita recipient of federal earmarks, requesting nearly $750 million in special federal spending over a period of two years . 
noLabel	For example, when Aldrich Ames handed a stack of dossiers of CIA agents in the Eastern Bloc to his KGB-officer "handler", the KGB "rolled up" several networks, and at least ten people were secretly shot.	When Ames was arrested by the FBI, he faced life in prison; his contact, who had diplomatic immunity, was declared persona non grata and taken to the airport.
noLabel	Students can enroll in a full-time course load leading to a diploma or enroll in particular courses as part of their enrollment in another school or homeschool).	Similarly, as more and more universities make content available online, homeschooled families are finding a wealth of materials available, primarily for use as self-study.
noLabel	In 1959, a letter in the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists was the start of a successful campaign to stop the Atomic Energy Commission dumping radioactive waste in the sea 19 kilometres from Boston .	In 1962, Linus Pauling won the Nobel Peace Prize for his work to stop the atmospheric testing of nuclear weapons, and the "Ban the Bomb" movement spread . 
noLabel	In 2004, activist Sébastien Briat, who had tied himself to train tracks in front of a shipment of reprocessed nuclear waste, was run over by the wheels of the train.	The event happened in Avricourt, France and the fuel (totaling 12 containers) was from a German plant, on its way to be reprocessed . 
noLabel	Among the criteria Arrow considered desirable was one which requires the voting system to use ordinal (ranking) information; thus, as John Harsanyi pointed out, cardinal (rated) voting systems such as approval voting, range voting, and majority judgment can successfully meet all the other criteria.	Arrow's theorem is easily the single most cited result in voting theory, and it inspired further significant results such as the Gibbard-Satterthwaite theorem, which showed that strategic voting is unavoidable in certain common circumstances, for any deterministic voting system, whether cardinal or ordinal. 
noLabel	VHEMT promotes a more extreme ideology than Population Action International, a group that argues humanity should reduce—but not eliminate—its population to care for the Earth.	However, the VHEMT platform is more moderate and serious than the Church of Euthanasia, which advocates population reduction by suicide and cannibalism .
noLabel	Bolo punch : Occasionally seen in Olympic boxing, the bolo is an arm punch which owes its power to the shortening of a circular arc rather than to transference of body weight; it tends to have more of an effect due to the surprise of the odd angle it lands at rather than the actual power of the punch.	This is more of a gimmick than a technical maneuver; this punch is not taught, being on the same plane in boxing technicality as is the Ali shuffle.
noLabel	Rangel again expressed his displeasure with the vice president in October 2006 – after Cheney had said that "Charlie doesn't understand how the economy works" – by opining that Cheney is "a real son of a bitch" who "enjoys a confrontation", and suggesting that Cheney required professional treatment for mental defects .	The White House said that the vice president did not take Rangel's comments personally and had a "big hearty laugh" over them . 
noLabel	On 26 February 2010, in testimony before the House of Representatives Foreign Affairs Committee, U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton "admitted that the report was problematic for the United States and other countries, which face the same type of war on terrorism coming out of populated areas."	She also warned that if the Goldstone report were to set the international standards, the U.S. and many other countries might be accused of war crimes for their military operations . 
noLabel	The U.S. Army, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Justice Department are considering criminally prosecuting WikiLeaks and Assange "on grounds they encouraged the theft of government property", although former prosecutors say doing so would be difficult .	According to a report on the Daily Beast website, the Obama administration asked Britain, Germany, and Australia among others to also consider bringing criminal charges against Assange for the Afghan war leaks and to help limit Assange's travels across international borders .
noLabel	The water pipe called qalyan (or hookah) most likely originated in India, but it was in Safavid dynasty Persia that it became a refined smoking tool.	The pipes of the rich were made of finely crafted glass and precious metals while common people used coconuts with bamboo tubing, and these were used to smoke cannabis before the arrival of tobacco.
noLabel	The thinking is that creators will not have sufficient incentive to invent unless they are legally entitled to capture the full social value of their inventions."	 This absolute protection or full value view treats intellectual property as another type of 'real' property, typically adopting its law and rhetoric.
noLabel	June 18, 1941: Joe Louis vs. Billy Conn — In this heavyweight championship match, Conn, the light-heavyweight titleholder, challenged Louis, the defending champion.	Leading on all three scorecards, Conn would have captured the title were the bout only 12 rounds long, which might have prevented Louis from retaining the title by knocking out Conn with a six-punch barrage in the 13th round .
noLabel	The idea of the Melting pot is a metaphor that implies that all the immigrant cultures are mixed and amalgamated without state intervention .	The Melting Pot implied that each individual immigrant, and each group of immigrants, assimilated into American society at their own pace which, as defined above, is not multiculturalism as this is opposed to assimilation and integration .
noLabel	This criticism is not very controversial, and is generally accepted by Keynesian economists as well, who refer to it as "exporting one's way out of a recession".	They further note that this frequently occurs in concert with currency devaluation (hence increasing exports and decreasing imports), and cannot work as a solution to a global problem, because the global economy is a closed system – not every nation can increase exports.
noLabel	On 30 March 2007, the UNHRC adopted a resolution entitled "Elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief."	The resolution called upon the Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief to report on this issue for the Human Rights Council at its sixth session . 
noLabel	|- Belfast 2,000 Speech by Irish Nobel Prize laureate Mairead Corrigan Maguire, Lord Mayor of Belfast, heads of the four main churches in Ireland (cross-border) and trade union presidents, including NIPSA heads .	The protest was boycotted by unionist political parties, most notably the DUP who claimed those attending the protest were anti-Israeli and pro-Hamas .
noLabel	On several occasions Dawkins has also made the controversial claim that sexually abusing a child is "arguably less" damaging than "the long term psychological damage inflicted by bringing up a child Catholic in the first place" .	This claim was later rebutted by Theodore Beale who wrote that Dawkins "first provides anecdotal information from one woman who was raised Catholic, was sexually abused by a priest, and later had nightmares about Hell..Despite posing the proposition as a comparison, Dawkins does not bother to consider what, if any, the negative effects of childhood sexual trauma might happen to be" and notes that "half" of the anecdotes Dawkins cites in favour of his case "aren't even related to Catholicism" .
noLabel	Although Confucius claimed that he never invented anything but was only transmitting ancient knowledge (see Analects VII, 1), he did produce a number of new ideas.	Many European and American admirers such as Voltaire and H. G. Creel point to the revolutionary idea of replacing nobility of blood with nobility of virtue.
noLabel	Radioactive contamination, also called radiological contamination, is radioactive substances on surfaces, or within solids, liquids or gases (including the human body), where their presence is unintended or undesirable, or the process giving rise to their presence in such places .	Also used less formally to refer to a quantity, namely the activity on a surface (or on a unit area of a surface). 
noLabel	In Japan, public universities refer to schools that are not national universities but are run by local governments, either prefectural or municipal.	According to the Ministry of Education, public universities have "provided an opportunity for higher education in a region and served the central role of intellectual and cultural base for the local community in the region", and are "expected to contribute to social, economical and cultural development in the region"; this contrasts to research-oriented aspects of national universities. 
noLabel	" The Swiss based company ABB in 2000 signed a $200 million contract to deliver equipment and services for two nuclear power stations at Kumho, on North Korea's east coast.	Donald Rumsfeld, who later became the U.S. Secretary of Defence, was on the board of ABB when it won this deal, but a Pentagon spokeswoman, Victoria Clark, said that Rumsfeld did not recall it being brought before the board at any time . 
noLabel	Shareholders, however, always have the option to liquidate their interests in a particular private company if bargaining or arbitration with unions affects the value of their property (stock) .	In contrast, negotiated increases in the cost of pay, pensions, health insurance and other benefits for public employees deprive both existing and subsequent taxpayers of their property through reduction of their income via increased taxation, without due process and right of redress through administrative or judicial appeal .
noLabel	The United Nations Security Council issued a statement on December 28, 2008 calling, "for an immediate halt to all violence", the Arab League, and the European Union made similar calls, as did Argentina, Brazil, China, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Peru, the Philippines, Russia, South Korea and Vietnam .	Libya pushed to issue a Security Council Resolution urging for a cease-fire, an effort which the US blocked, citing the failure of the statement made December 28 . 
noLabel	Professor Carl Cohen of the University of Michigan, who was a supporter of Michigan's Proposal 2, have argued that the term "affirmative action" should be defined differently than "race preference," and that while socioeconomically based or anti-discrimination types of affirmative action are permissible, those that give preference to individuals solely based on their race or gender should not be permitted.	Cohen also helped find evidence in 1996 through the Freedom of Information Act that led to the cases filed by Jennifer Gratz and Barbara Grutter against the University of Michigan for its undergraduate and law admissions policy - cases which were decided by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 23, 2003. 
noLabel	In the former German Democratic Republic, conscripts who were not willing to bear arms were drafted into the National People's Army as "construction soldiers" ("Bausoldaten").	They were used in public construction projects, and sometimes also to fill worker shortages in various parts of the East German economy, such as the mining industry.
noLabel	According to the Book of Acts, the early church attracted significant numbers of women; many of these were prominent in cultures that afforded women more substantial roles than Judaism did.	According to Alister McGrath, Christianity had the effect of undermining traditional roles of both women and slaves in two ways: . 
noLabel	Bombers and short-range rockets were not reliable: planes could be shot down, and earlier nuclear missiles could cover only a limited range&mdash; for example, the first Soviet rockets' range limited them to targets in Europe.	However, by the 1960s, both the United States and the Soviet Union had developed intercontinental ballistic missiles, which could be launched from extremely remote areas far away from their target.
noLabel	Toomey was rated 80% by the National Taxpayers Union (NTU), classifying him as what the NTU considers to be a "Taxpayer's Friend" on tax votes .	From 1999-2004, He received a 78% rating by the Republican Liberty Caucus (RLC) on its 'Liberty Index', indicating what the RLC considers his career to be, on average, one of a libertarian-leaning voting record.
noLabel	Intensive farming can also decrease soil nutrients by consuming at an accelerated rate the trace minerals needed for crop growth.The most promising approach, however, is the concept of food forests in permaculture, which consists of agroforestal systems carefully designed to mimic natural forests, with an emphasis on plant and animal species of interest for food, timber and other uses.	These systems have low dependence on fossil fuels and agro-chemicals, are highly self-maintaining, highly productive, and with strong positive impact on soil and water quality, and biodiversity.
noLabel	One commentator remarked that although there was no religious test for office, Palin should be asked whether she believes in separation of church and state .	The New York Times said that both churches Palin had attended had in common a belief in the power of prayer to affect world events and a belief in the literal translation of the Bible . 
noLabel	The melting pot theory of ethnic relations, which sees American identity as centered upon the acculturation or assimilation and the intermarriage of white immigrant groups, has been analyzed by the emerging academic field of whiteness studies.	This discipline examines the 'social construction of whiteness' and highlights the changing ways in which whiteness has been normative to American national identity from the seventeenth to the twentieth century. 
noLabel	Pagrindinė mokykla provides only an incomplete secondary education as it is not sufficient if one wants to start studies at a university.	People who want to continue their education to obtain the full secondary education diploma, which would allow them to join a university upon completing the pagrindinė mokykla, must either enter a gymnasium, lyceum, or a vidurinė mokykla. 
noLabel	Especially in the developed coastal areas with heavy power load, nuclear power will become the backbone of the power structure there.	China has planned to build up another 30 sets of nuclear power generator within 15 years with total installed capacity of 80 GWs by 2020, accounting for about 4% of China's total installed capacity of the electric power industry.
noLabel	While the Second Vatican Council for the first time allowed the use of the vernacular in the liturgy of the Mass, it also demanded conservation of the use of Latin and stimulated Latin Gregorian chant.	The new, 1970 edition of the reformed Roman Missal allowed for a worldwide use of the vernacular in the Eucharist for the first time.
noLabel	The general claim of theories of white privilege is that racial inequity cannot be resolved solely by looking at the life conditions of disadvantaged groups.	They suggest that solutions to problems of racial inequality can only be achieved by explicitly discussing the implicit advantages that whites as a group hold in society.
noLabel	An example of "sanitization" policies comes from the USSR under Joseph Stalin, where publicly used photographs were often altered to remove people whom Stalin had condemned to execution.	Though past photographs may have been remembered or kept, this deliberate and systematic alteration to all of history in the public mind is seen as one of the central themes of Stalinism and totalitarianism. 
noLabel	This leads to a compromised water table, reduced water levels, homogenization of the river flow and thus reduced ecosystem variability, reduced support for wildlife, and reduced amount of sediment reaching coastal plains and deltas .	This prompts coastal erosion, as beaches are unable to replenish what waves erode without the sediment deposition of supporting river systems.
noLabel	Smith asserted that he was not joking; he sincerely supported the amendment and, indeed, along with Rep. Martha Griffiths, he was the chief spokesperson for the amendment .	For twenty years Smith had sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment (with no linkage to racial issues) in the House because he believed in it.
noLabel	Holocaust denial, they contend, is "the worst form of racism and its most respectable version because it pretends to be a research.	" In the Belgian Senate the Minister of Justice Laurette Onkelinx compared laws criminalizing Holocaust denial with those condemning incitement to ethnic or racial hatred in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands.
noLabel	As a result, the people who had once relied on tourism were left with no other means of support, dividing the community and families.	Some turned to the rosewood trade out of desperation, while others who feared prosecution for directly participating in logging instead acted as guides by helping the loggers find the trees . 
noLabel	The oldest non-state-run university, the Universidade Católica Portuguesa - UCP (Catholic University of Portugal), a catholic private university (concordatory status) with branches in the cities of Lisbon, Porto, Braga, Viseu, and Caldas da Rainha, was founded before the others, in 1967, and officially recognized in 1971.	UCP offers some well-recognized degrees and is reputed for economics, law and business management degrees it awards at its Lisbon branch.
noLabel	There are no set regulations as to what cannot be depicted in order to gain a classification as each scene is considered in the context of the wider intentions of the work; however images that could aid, encourage, or are a result of the committing of a crime, along with sustained and graphic images of torture or sexual abuse are the most likely to be refused.	The objectionable material may be cut by the distributor in order to receive a classification, but with some works it may be deemed that no amount of cuts would be able to make the work suitable for classification, effectively banning that title from sale in the country. 
noLabel	|- Spanish Foreign Minister Miguel Ángel Moratinos "expressed his firm condemnation of the irresponsible provocation on the part of Hamas in launching rocket attacks, as well as the Israeli Armed Forces’ disproportionate retaliation.	" Spain offered the International Committee of the Red Cross two trucks of humanitarian aid to be sent to Gaza .
noLabel	The practical intention has always been to deter and, if that failed, to keep society safer for the longest possible period of time by locking the habitual offenders away in prisons (see Wilson).	From the earliest theorists, the arguments were based on morality and social utility, and it was not until comparatively recently that there has been empirical research to determine whether punishment is an effective deterrent.
noLabel	Rehnquist also argued that flag burning is "no essential part of any exposition of ideas" but rather "the equivalent of an inarticulate grunt or roar that, it seems fair to say, is most likely to be indulged in not to express any particular idea, but to antagonize others."	He goes on to say that he felt the statute in question was a reasonable restriction only on the manner in which Johnson's idea was expressed, leaving Johnson with, "a full panoply of other symbols and every conceivable form of verbal expression to express his deep disapproval of national policy."
noLabel	The filling (impounding) of reservoirs has often been attributed to reservoir-triggered seismicity (RTS) as seismic events have occurred near large dams or within their reservoirs in the past.	These events may have been triggered by the filling or operation of the reservoir and are on a small scale when compared to the amount of reservoirs worldwide.
noLabel	A fierce battle was fought between those seeking to commercialise the radio and people who argued that the radio spectrum should be considered a part of the commons – to be used only non-commercially and for the public good.	The United Kingdom pursued a public funding model for the BBC, originally a private company, the British Broadcasting Company, but incorporated as a public body by Royal Charter in 1927.
noLabel	Many women possess such thin, fragile hymens, easily stretched and already perforated at birth, that the hymen can be broken in childhood without the girl even being aware of it, often through athletic activities.	A slip while riding a bicycle may on occasion result in the bicycle's saddle-horn entering the introitus just far enough to break the hymen .
noLabel	In such a case the truth of the statements was no justification for the public and insulting manner in which they had been made.	But even in public matters, the accused had the opportunity to justify his actions by openly stating what he considered necessary for public safety to be denounced by the libel, and proving his assertions to be true .
noLabel	In early 2008, the US secretary of state, Condoleezza Rice, apologized after a series of crimes involving American troops in Japan, including the rape of a young girl of 14 by a marine on Okinawa.	The U.S. military also imposed a temporary 24-hour curfew on military personnel and their families to ease the anger of local residents .
noLabel	Washington (11–1) was voted #2 following the bowl season with their only blemish a late season loss at Pac-10 champ USC.	Coupled with the 1983 season of 11 consecutive wins, BYU finished the 1984 season with a 24 game winning streak and was a near-unanimous choice as national champion in final polls. 
noLabel	Make equitable trade-offs: Many budget choices have win-lose outcomes, reflecting how government revenues are divided, with some benefiting and others incurring costs.	For example, taking away benefits from those in or near retirement may be considered inequitable, while phasing out retirement benefits for younger workers may be considered less so. 
noLabel	The broad topic of Social Studies may include key events, documents, understandings, and concepts in American history, and geography, and in some programs, state or local history and geography.	Topics included under the broader term "science" vary from the physical sciences such as physics and chemistry, through the biological sciences such as biology, ecology, and physiology. 
noLabel	In November 2010, anticipating the possible indictment of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange under the Act, critics of that legal strategy said that the broad language of the Act could make news organizations and anyone who reported, printed, or disseminated information from Wikileaks subject to prosecution as well .	In 2011, an unknown person in Cambridge, Massachusettes, had received a subpoena regarding the Espionage Act's "conspiracy" clause , as well as the federal embezzlement law , a statute used in some other Espionage Act-related cases.
noLabel	Such arrangements are not to be confused with supranational entities which are not states and are not defined by a common monarchy but may (or not) have a symbolic, essentially protocollary, titled highest office, e.g.	Head of the Commonwealth (held by the British crown, but not legally reserved for it) or 'Head of the Arab Union' (14 February - 14 July 1958, held by the Hashemite King of Iraq, during its short-lived Federation with Jordan, its Hashemite sister-realm).
noLabel	Aquinas left out from his list several arguments that were already in existence at the time, such as the ontological argument of Saint Anselm, because he did not believe that they worked.	In the 20th century, the Roman Catholic priest and philosopher Frederick Copleston, devoted much of his works to fully explaining and expanding on Aquinas’ five ways. 
noLabel	There are between 550,000 and 950,000 illegal immigrants in the United Kingdom, with a figure of 750,000 as the most likely number .	The United Kingdom is a difficult country to reach as it is mostly located on one island and part of another, but traffickers in Calais, France have tried to smuggle illegal immigrants into the UK.
noLabel	There is an annual protest against U.S. nuclear weapons research at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California and in the 2007 protest, 64 people were arrested .	There have been a series of protests at the Nevada Test Site and in the April 2007 Nevada Desert Experience protest, 39 people were cited by police .
noLabel	In Ireland, nearly all universities, institutes of technology, colleges of education and some other third-level institutions are public, and the state pays the cost of educating its undergraduates.	There are a few private institutions of higher learning, for example the National College of Ireland but none of them have university status and they are highly specialised. 
noLabel	The one child policy has also been speculated to be the underlying cause of forced abortions, female infanticide, underreporting of female births, and has been suggested as a possible cause behind China's increasing number of crimes and gender imbalance.	Despite this, a 2008 survey given by the Pew Research Center reports that 76% of the Chinese population supports the policy . 
noLabel	In the UK, a member of a trade union making a complaint of workplace harassment against a fellow employee and member of the same union is not entitled to union advice and assistance, irrespective of the merit of the case, because the employee complained against could lose his/her job.	In the  race discrimination case, the Tribunal decided that the union's principal obligation in race harassment cases is to protect the tenure of the accused employee.
noLabel	With the election of Lincoln and the capture of the majority of Northern state constituencies by Republicans, the South was driven into secession.	Freed of compromise over tariffs with Southern interests, the Northern States under Lincoln implemented a 44 percent tariff during the Civil War in part to pay for the building of the Union-Pacific Railroad, the war effort, and to protect American industry . 
noLabel	While bishops hold the secrecy pertained only internally, and did not preclude investigation by civil law enforcement, the letter was often seen as promoting a coverup .	Later, as Pope, he was accused in a lawsuit of conspiring to cover up the molestation of three boys in Texas, but sought and obtained diplomatic immunity from prosecution . 
noLabel	Here's an opportunity to give back something where kids will have an opportunity and parents will have an opportunity to go to a school of their choice not some school mandated by government.	If every proposal that I have favored over the last 20 years got enacted, whether its term limits or school choice or property rights or any area -- I get no personal benefit out of it.
noLabel	By 1937 the total numbers of people arriving by air reached 37,348, still a paltry number when compared to the numbers arriving by sea, (498,326) .	The numbers arriving at seaports would continue to rise but would be outstripped by the late 1950s by the rise of air travel. 
noLabel	For example, the surviving spouse of a childless couple could only inherit one-tenth of the deceased fortune, while the rest was taken by the state.	These laws encountered resistance from the population which led to the disregard of their provisions and to their eventual abolition . 
noLabel	In looking at other aspects of the respiratory system, Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is another major issue among women who smoke.	The risk of having COPD is increased with amount and duration and smoking accounts for 90 percent of COPD mortalities . 
noLabel	Of the 253 nuclear power reactors originally ordered in the United States from 1953 to 2008, 48 percent were canceled, 11 percent were prematurely shut down, 14 percent experienced at least a one-year-or-more outage, and 27 percent are operating without having a year-plus outage.	Thus, only about one fourth of those ordered, or about half of those completed, are still operating and have proved relatively reliable .
noLabel	The paradox of thrift has been related to the debt deflation theory of economic crises, being called "the paradox of debt" – people save not to increase savings, but rather to pay down debt.	As well, a paradox of toil and a paradox of flexibility have been proposed: A willingness to work more in a liquidity trap and wage flexibility after a debt deflation shock may lead not only to lower wages, but lower employment .
noLabel	To ensure the possibility of public debate about the content of the papers, on June 29, US Senator Mike Gravel (then Democrat, Alaska) entered 4,100 pages of the Papers to the record of his Subcommittee on Public Buildings and Grounds.	These portions of the Papers were subsequently published by Beacon Press, the publishing arm of the Unitarian Universalist Association of Congregations . 
noLabel	At present, 189 countries are States Parties to the Treaty on the Nonproliferation of Nuclear Weapons, more commonly known as the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty or NPT.	These include the five Nuclear Weapons States (NWS) recognized by the NPT: the People's Republic of China, France, Russian Federation, the UK, and the United States. 
noLabel	The difficulty that modern capital finds in meeting all of these conditions is that (1) and (2) are correlated with an immature legal system, but (3) and (4) are correlated with the division of powers, and long-standing legal institutions.	As Russian oligarchs and early foreign direct investors in China discovered, the ability of an enterprise to make money is no guarantee that its profits can be retained.
noLabel	In light of these changes, figures from 2007 display a substantial reduction in executions with only 470 reported executions compared with figures from previous years.	Amnesty International analysts argue that this drop is only temporary since the figure includes only confirmed executions and are likely to be much higher .
noLabel	The publication of Arthur Butz's The Hoax of the Twentieth Century: The case against the presumed extermination of European Jewry in 1976; and David Irving's Hitler's War in 1977 brought other similarly inclined individuals into the fold .	In December 1978 and January 1979, Robert Faurisson, a French professor of literature at the University of Lyon, wrote two letters to Le Monde claiming that the gas chambers used by the Nazis to exterminate the Jews did not exist.
noLabel	Currently 45% of the Cape region's electricity comes from the nearby Canal Power Plant in Sandwich, which burns bunker oil and natural gas .	The Cape Wind proposal is distinct in that it would directly offset petroleum combustion, unlike most of the United States where electrical power generation from oil is rare and coal power is more common. 
noLabel	According to a poll by Public Issue and SKAI Channel, PASOK—who won the national elections of 2009 with 43.92% of the vote—has seen its approval rating decimated to a mere 8%, placing it fifth after right-wing New Democracy (31%), left-wing Democratic Left (18%), left-wing Communist Party of Greece (KKE) (12.5%) and left-wing SYRIZA (12%).	The same poll suggested that Papanderou is the least popular political leader with a 9% approval rating, while 71% of Greeks do not trust Papademos as prime minister . 
noLabel	Noam Shalit, father of Israeli soldier Gilad Shalit held captive by Hamas, urged the UN to take all possible measures to implement the Goldstone report's recommendations on the status of his son.	The Goldstone report calls for the immediate release of Gilad Shalit and, while Shalit is in captivity, for access to him by the International Red Cross . 
noLabel	Trevor Huddleston, Sir Julian Huxley, Edward Hyams, the Bishop of Llandaff Dr Glyn Simon, Doris Lessing, Sir Compton Mackenzie, the Very Rev George McLeod, Miles Malleson, Denis Matthews, Sir Francis Meynell, Henry Moore, John Napper, Ben Nicholson, Sir Herbert Read, Flora Robson, Michael Tippett, the cartoonist 'Vicky', Professor C. H. Waddington and Barbara Wootton .	Other prominent founding members of CND were Fenner Brockway, E. P. Thompson, A. J. P. Taylor, Anthony Greenwood, Lord Simon, D. H. Pennington, Eric Baker and Dora Russell.
noLabel	Furthermore, even if one chooses to accept God as the First Cause, there is an argument that God's continued interaction with the Universe is not required.	This is the foundation for beliefs such as deism that accept that a god created the Universe, but then ceased to have any further interaction with it .
noLabel	In England, the Royal Society of London also played a significant role in the public sphere and the spread of Enlightenment ideas.	In particular, it played a large role in spreading Robert Boyle's experimental philosophy around Europe, and acted as a clearinghouse for intellectual correspondence and exchange .
noLabel	The tragedy of the commons has intellectual roots tracing back to Aristotle, who noted that "what is common to the greatest number has the least care bestowed upon it", as well as to Hobbes and his leviathan .	The opposite situation to a tragedy of the commons is sometimes referred to as a tragedy of the anticommons: a situation in which rational individuals, acting separately, collectively waste a given resource by underutilizing it. 
noLabel	However, this perception of African Americans as inherently violent is not limited to the White segment of the population: the National Race and Politics Survey of 1991 recorded more than half of both White Americans and African Americans as being in agreement with the statement "Blacks are aggressive or violent".	Further, a study conducted in 2002 found that the general public holds the belief that African Americans are involved in a greater percentage of violent crime (39.4%) than stated in victim surveys for completed violent crime (29.4%).
noLabel	Following the death of Giuseppe Pinelli, who "accidentally fell out of a window" on December 15 while in police custody, the radical left-wing newspaper Lotta Continua started a campaign accusing police officer Luigi Calabresi of Pinelli's murder.	The accusation of wrongful death at the hands of the police was eventually determined to be false by the state, but only after many years of investigation. 
noLabel	Offshore wind power can help to reduce energy imports, reduce air pollution and greenhouse gases (by displacing fossil-fuel power generation), meet renewable electricity standards, and create jobs and local business opportunities .	However, according to the US Energy Information Agency, offshore wind power is the most expensive energy generating technology being considered for large scale deployment" .
noLabel	Specific countries, especially countries run by Communist parties, while still having unions in name, do not allow for independent trade unions, just as they rarely allow for independent businesses.	These state-run trade unions do not function in the same way as independent trade unions and generally do not hold any kind of collective bargaining power, acting to ensure the smooth running of Government industry. 
noLabel	Specifically, it obliges parties to criminalize hate speech, hate crimes and the financing of racist activities, and to prohibit and criminalize membership in organizations that "promote and incite" racial discrimination .	A number of parties have reservations on this article, and interpret it as not permitting or requiring measures that infringe on the freedoms of speech, association or assembly . 
noLabel	James Shikwati is a writer and a commentator on public policy with a special interest in development, environment, trade and agriculture related issues.	He has written widely on a variety of subjects in Kenyan and international newspapers, magazines, such as The Times, The Guardian, The Wall Street Journal, The Washington Post, The Sydney Morning Herald, The Business News, The Daily Nation, The East African Standard and The African Executive. 
noLabel	Gisha, an Israeli not-for-profit organization whose stated goal is "to protect the freedom of movement of Palestinians, especially Gaza residents," criticized the focus on humanitarian aid by flotilla organizers and the Israeli government.	Sari B ashi, Executive Director of Gisha, said "residents of Gaza are being deliberately reduced to recipients of humanitarian aid" and that there is "no shortage of food in Gaza, but economic recovery is blocked by sweeping restrictions on the movement of goods and people" .
noLabel	|- The "MA15+" rating is restricted to those 15, those under 15 cannot legally play or buy the game without being accompanied by a legal guardian.	It can contain strong gruesome violence if justified by context, strong implication of sexual activity, strong coarse language (though "very coarse language" should be infrequent), and "strong themes".
noLabel	Further dispossession of various kinds continues into the present, although these current dispossessions, especially in terms of land, rarely make major news headlines in the country (e.g., the Lenape people's recent fiscal troubles and subsequent land grab by the State of New Jersey), and sometimes even fail to make it to headlines in the localities in which they occur.	Through concessions for industries such as oil, mining and timber and through division of land from the Allotment Act forward, these concessions have raised problems of consent, exploitation of low royalty rates, environmental injustice, and gross mismanagement of funds held in trust, resulting in the loss of $10–40 billion . 
noLabel	While pre-school education is subsidized as well, through programs such as Head Start, many Americans still find themselves unable to take advantage of them.	Some education critics have therefore proposed creating a comprehensive transfer system to make pre-school education universal, pointing out that the financial returns alone would compensate for the cost. 
noLabel	For decades, African American farmers said they were unjustly being denied farm loans or subjected to longer waits for loan approval because of racism, and accused the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) of not responding to their complaints .	In 2011, Bank of America agreed to pay $335 million to settle a federal government claim that its mortgage division, Countrywide Financial, discriminated against black and Hispanic homebuyers .
noLabel	Though coalition and minority governments have been an occasional feature of parliamentary politics, the first-past-the-post electoral system used for general elections tends to maintain the dominance of these two parties, though each has in the past century relied upon a third party to deliver a working majority in Parliament .	(A plurality voting system usually leads to a two-party system, a relationship described by Maurice Duverger and known as Duverger's Law .)
noLabel	Higher, post-secondary, tertiary, or third level education refers to the stage of learning that occurs at universities, academies, colleges, seminaries, and institutes of technology.	Higher education also includes certain collegiate-level institutions, such as vocational schools, trade schools, and career colleges, that award academic degrees or professional certifications. 
noLabel	Hugh Gaitskell, the Labour Party leader, received the vote with a promise to "fight, fight, and fight again" against the decision and it was overturned at the 1961 Conference.	Labour's failure to win the General election of 1959 and its rejection of unilateralism in 1961 upset the plans of the CND leadership and, although CND retained the support of a significant minority of the population, from this point onwards its prospects of success began to fade. 
noLabel	Though at first seen as a data collection and outcome reporting tool, the use of computer technology in the classrooms, meeting areas, and homes continued to unfold.	The sole dependence on paper resources for subject information diminished and e-books and articles, as well as on-line courses, were anticipated to become increasingly staple and affordable choices provided by higher education institutions according to Whyte in a 2002 presentation . 
noLabel	Anabolic steroids (AAS) were first isolated, identified and synthesized in the 1930s, and are now used therapeutically in medicine hibone growth and appetite, induce male puberty, and treat chronic wasting conditions, such as cancer and AIDS.	Anabolic steroids also produce increases in muscle mass and physical strength, and are consequently used in sport and bodybuilding to enhance strength or physique.
noLabel	Arms control advocates had campaigned for the adoption of a treaty banning all nuclear explosions since the early 1950s, when public concern was aroused as a result of radioactive fall-out from atmospheric nuclear tests and the escalating arms race.	Over 50 nuclear explosions were registered between 16 July 1945, when the first nuclear explosive test was conducted by the United States at White Sands Missile Range near Alamogordo, New Mexico, and 31 December 1953.
noLabel	There have also been reports that two Pakistani scientists, from the AQ Khan stable, had been dispatched to Myanmar where they had settled down, to help Myanmar's project.	Recently, the David Albright-led Institute for Science and International Security rang alarm bells about Myanmar attempting a nuclear project with North Korean help.
noLabel	In 2003 John Paul&nbsp;II reiterated that "there is no place in the priesthood and religious life for those who would harm the young" .	and in April 2003, the Pontifical Academy for Life organised a three-day conference, entitled "Abuse of Children and Young People by Catholic Priests and Religious", where eight non-Catholic psychiatric experts were invited to speak to near all Vatican dicasteries' representatives.
noLabel	The government of Iceland states: "It should be stressed that the geothermal resource is not strictly renewable in the same sense as the hydro resource."	It estimates that Iceland's geothermal energy could provide 1700 MW for over 100 years, compared to the current production of 140 MW .
noLabel	Donation tax credits are tax credits given to individual taxpayers or businesses who donate to nonprofit organizations that give out private school scholarships to low income families.	These two types of tax credits can easily be combined to cover all families—from low income up—in a comprehensive tax credit program.
noLabel	A September 2002 update considered the results of these 28 studies plus an additional 10 studies and, after controlling for various potentially confounding religious, cultural, behavioral, and other factors, had similarly robust findings.	Recent laboratory studies in Chicago found HIV uptake in the inner foreskin tissue to be up to nine times more efficient than in a control sample of cervical tissue . 
noLabel	Opium smoking later spread with Chinese immigrants and spawned many infamous opium dens in China towns around South and Southeast Asia and Europe.	In the latter half of the 19th century, opium smoking became popular in the artistic community in Europe, especially Paris; artists' neighborhoods such as Montparnasse and Montmartre became virtual "opium capitals".
noLabel	Most countries have laws requiring workers to have proper documentation, often intended to prevent or minimize the employment of unauthorized immigrants.	However the penalties against employers are often small and the acceptable identification requirements vague and ill-defined as well as being seldom checked or enforced, making it easy for employers to hire unauthorized labor.
noLabel	In the north of the City, the iconic 7 towers complex in the New Lodge remains, although so too the problems that residents face, such as poor piping and inadequate sanitation.	Farther north, the 4 tower blocks in Rathcoole still dominate the local skyline, while in south Belfast, the tower blocks in Seymour Hill also remain standing.
noLabel	The film made multiple references to video game culture and featured the game Demonik, which was cancelled by its publisher shortly after the film's release.	The most current example of a film of this type is 2006's Stay Alive, a horror film about a next-generation video game that is so realistic that it kills its players in the same way their avatars were killed.
noLabel	In more general contexts, Sinicization refers to the process of "becoming Chinese" or "becoming Han"; the opposite process is becoming "not Chinese" (desinicization).	The term has been used in social science primarily to describe the assimilation of non-Han Chinese peoples (such as the Manchus) into the Chinese identity. 
noLabel	The total sales of arcade video game machines in North America increased significantly during this period, from $50 million in 1978 to $900 million by 1981, with the arcade video game industry's revenue in North America reaching nearly $1 billion in quarters by the end of the 1970s, a figure that would triple to $2.8 billion by 1980 .	Color arcade games also became more popular in 1979 and 1980 with the arrival of titles such as Pac-Man, which would go on to sell over 350,000 cabinets, and within a year, generate a revenue of more than $1 billion in quarters; in total, Pac-Man is estimated to have grossed over 10 billion quarters ($2.5 billion) during the 20th century, equivalent to over $3.4 billion in 2011 . 
noLabel	Increasing numbers of African-American activists have asserted that rap music videos utilize African-American performers commonly enacting tropes of scantily clothed women and men as thugs or pimps.	Church organized groups have protested outside the residence of Phillipe Dauman (Upper East Side (New York, NY)) (president and chief executive officer of Viacom) and the residence of Debra L. Lee (Northwest Washington DC) (chairman and chief executive of Black Entertainment Television, a unit of Viacom).
noLabel	In their current form, Olympic and other amateur bouts are typically limited to three or four rounds, scoring is computed by points based on the number of clean blows landed, regardless of impact, and fighters wear protective headgear, reducing the number of injuries, knockdowns, and knockouts.	Currently scoring blows in amateur boxing are subjectively counted by ringside judges, but the Australian Institute for Sport has demonstrated a prototype of an Automated Boxing Scoring System, which introduces scoring objectivity, improves safety, and arguably makes the sport more interesting to spectators.
noLabel	A consequence of this theory is that effective teaching should present a variety of teaching methods which cover all three learning modalities so that different students have equal opportunities to learn in a way that is effective for them .	Guy Claxton has questioned the extent that learning styles such as VAK are helpful, particularly as they can have a tendency to label children and therefore restrict learning .
noLabel	Third, the paradox assumes a closed economy in which savings are not invested abroad (to fund exports of local production abroad).	Thus, while the paradox may hold at the global level, it need not hold at the local or national level: if one nation increases savings, this can be offset by trading partners consuming a greater amount relative to their own production, i.e., if the saving nation increases exports, and its partners increase imports.
noLabel	In 2007, a study ordered by Congress found that middle school students who took part in abstinence-only sex education programs were just as likely to have sex in their teenage years as those who did not .	From 1999 to 2006, the study tracked more than 2,000 students from age 11 or 12 to age 16; the study included students who had participated in one of four abstinence education programs, as well as a control group who had not participated in such a program.
noLabel	Childhood obesity is a growing global concern and physical exercise may help decrease some of the effects of childhood and adult obesity.	Health care providers often call exercise the "miracle" or "wonder" drug—alluding to the wide variety of proven benefits that it provides .
noLabel	Fowler said in February 2009 that his work toward revoking the Fairness Doctrine under the Reagan Administration had been a matter of principle (his belief that the Doctrine impinged upon the First Amendment), not partisanship.	Fowler described the White House staff raising concerns, at a time before the prominence of conservative talk radio and during the preeminence of the Big Three television networks and PBS in political discourse, that repealing the policy would be politically unwise.
noLabel	In a study for The Guttmacher Institute, researchers found that from a comparative perspective, however, teenage pregnancy rates in the United States are less nuanced than one might initially assume.	“Since timing and levels of sexual activity are quite similar across [Sweden, France, Canada, Great Britain, and the U.S.], the high U.S. rates arise primarily because of less, and possibly less-effective, contraceptive use by sexually active teenagers.” Thus, the cause for the discrepancy between rich nations can be traced largely to contraceptive-based issues. 
noLabel	Individualism is often contrasted either with totalitarianism or with collectivism, but in fact there is a spectrum of behaviors at the societal level ranging from highly individualistic societies through mixed societies (a term the UK has used in the post-World War II period) to collectivist.	Also, many collectivists (particularly supporters of collectivist anarchism or libertarian socialism) point to the enormous differences between liberty-minded collectivism and totalitarian practices. 
noLabel	In particular, the fourth pillar called for adherence to the principles "under the circumstances where Japan's national security is guaranteed by the other three policies", implying that a change of circumstances might allow Japan to develop a nuclear program.	Amid anxiety over U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War, aggression between North and South Korea, and tense Cross-Strait relations, this stipulation served to reassure the Diet that the nuclear option would still be considered if any of the conflicts escalated to threaten Japanese national security. 
noLabel	The Report to the Commissioner of Baseball of an Independent Investigation into the Illegal Use of Steroids and Other Performance Enhancing Substances by Players in Major League Baseball, informally known as the "Mitchell Report", is the result of former Democratic United States Senator from Maine George J. Mitchell's 21-month investigation into the use of anabolic steroids and human growth hormone (HGH) in Major League Baseball (MLB).	The 409-page report, released on December 13, 2007, covers the history of the use of illegal performance-enhancing substances by players and the effectiveness of the MLB Joint Drug Prevention and Treatment Program.
noLabel	Being a child was apparently a fine property, to better endure tedious duties and to tolerate subjugation to political power-brokers, as well as sometimes to cloak the truly powerful members of the imperial dynasty.	Almost all Japanese empresses and dozens of emperors abdicated, and lived the rest of their lives in pampered retirement, wielding influence behind the scenes.
noLabel	Freedom of thought, conscience and religion are closely related rights that protect the freedom of an individual or community, in public or private, to think and freely hold conscientious beliefs and to manifest religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship, and observance; the concept is generally recognized also to include the freedom to change religion or not to follow any religion .	The freedom to leave or discontinue membership in a religion or religious group—in religious terms called "apostasy"—is also a fundamental part of religious freedom, covered by Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights . 
noLabel	They see a new power configuration based on a right-wing political party capable of sharply changing the traditional role of the state (federal and provincial) in the twenty-first-century.	Behiels says that unlike Brian Mulroney, who tried but failed to challenge the long-term, dominance of the Liberals, Harper's attempt has proven to be more determined, systematic and successful thus far . 
noLabel	In effect, the monarchs ruled with the intent of improving the lives of their subjects in order to strengthen or reinforce their authority.	Implicit in this philosophy was that the sovereign knew the interests of his subjects better than they themselves; his responsibility to them thus precluded their political participation. 
noLabel	A somewhat different view was expressed by John Roemer who used the term nondiscrimination principle to mean that "all individuals who possess the attributes relevant for the performance of the duties of the position in question be included in the pool of eligible candidates, and that an individual's possible occupancy of the position be judged only with respect to those relevant attributes.	" Matt Cavanagh argued that race and sex shouldn't matter when getting a job, but that the sense of equality of opportunity should not extend much further than preventing straightforward discrimination .
noLabel	Semiconductors, especially integrated circuits, are extremely susceptible to the effects of EMP due to the close proximity of the PN junctions, but this is not the case with thermionic tubes (or valves) which are relatively immune to EMP.	A Faraday cage doesn't offer protection from the effects of EMP unless the mesh is designed to have holes no bigger than the smallest wavelength emitted from a nuclear explosion. 
noLabel	Examples of this policy included the renaming of streets, use of Mandarin Chinese in schools and punishments for using other languages, and teaching students to revere Confucian ethics, develop Han Chinese nationalism, and believe Taiwan is part of China .	Other reasons for the policy were to combat the Japanese influences on the culture that had occurred in the previous 50 years, and to help unite the recent immigrants from mainland China that had come to Taiwan with the KMT and among whom there was a tendency to be more loyal to one's city, country or province than to China as a nation .
noLabel	In Europe before the development of nationalism, people were generally loyal to a city or to a particular leader rather than to their nation.	Encyclopædia Britannica identifies the movement's genesis with the late-18th century American Revolution and French Revolution; other historians point specifically to the ultra-nationalist party in France during the French Revolution . 
noLabel	EPO was again a factor in the various doping scandals at the 2007 Tour de France, including the suspension of Spanish cyclist, Iban Mayo.	The IOC found that athletes were using a new version of EPO, a chronic kidney disease drug called MIRCERA, and three athletes tested positive for the substance in April 2009 .
noLabel	He is sometimes considered to be the founding father of the laissez-faire economic theory, but in fact argues for some degree of government control in order to maintain equity.	Just prior to this he wrote Theory of Moral Sentiments, explaining how it is humans function and interact through what he calls sympathy, setting up important context for The Wealth of Nations. 
noLabel	The second level explained international politics as being driven by the domestic regimes of states, while the third level focused on the role of systemic factors, or the effect that international anarchy was exerting on state behavior.	"Anarchy" in this context is meant not as a condition of chaos or disorder, but one in which there is no sovereign body that governs nation-states.
noLabel	Because testing was seen as a sign of technological development (the ability to design usable weapons without some form of testing was considered dubious), halts on testing were often called for as stand-ins for halts in the nuclear arms race itself, and many prominent scientists and statesmen lobbied for a ban on nuclear testing.	In 1958, the U.S., USSR, and the United Kingdom (a new nuclear power) declared a temporary testing moratorium for both political and health reasons, but by 1961 the Soviet Union had broken the moratorium and both the USSR and the U.S. began testing with great frequency. 
noLabel	Subsequent to an order from the Lahore High Court on May 19, 2010, the government of Pakistan through its agency the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) indefinitely banned Facebook in the country, in response to the impending May 20 date at the focus of the protest movement .	The order to carry out the shut down of Facebook in Pakistan was given by the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority, which also publicized an email address and phone number and requested individuals contact the agency to let them know about "all similar URLs where such objectionable material is found" .
noLabel	This includes non-tariff barriers such as food regulations and standards, which developing countries are often not (or not effectively) involved in setting, and which may be deliberately used to reduce competition from developing countries.	In any case, the lack of capacity to meet implement regulations and ensure compliance with standards constitutes a barrier to trade, and must be met by increasing that capacity. 
noLabel	While the fundamental physics of the fission chain reaction in a nuclear weapon is similar to the physics of a controlled nuclear reactor, the two types of device must be engineered quite differently (see nuclear reactor physics).	A nuclear bomb is designed to release all its energy at once, while a reactor is designed to generate a steady supply of useful power.
noLabel	The claims and counter claims have put an immense amount of pressure on Iran to reveal all aspects of its nuclear program to date.	Iran has been slow to respond, claiming the pressure is solely an attempt by the US government to prevent it from obtaining nuclear technology.
noLabel	- The President of the Republic of China (Taiwan), Chen Shui-bian expressed, on behalf of the Taiwanese Government, he conveys the strongest denunciation and regret to such violences of anti-democracy, anti-human rights, anti-humanity of Burmese Government, and appeals to the global democratic community to bring active interposition to Myanmar, so that bring liberty, democracy and peace to Burmese people afresh as soon as possible.	He also urges the international society to square up to the entity of autarchy of the People's Republic China, to her bad record of human rights, and also, to pay close attention to her military intimidation, diplomatic repression and political wars of consolidation to Taiwan. 
noLabel	They placed the silhouette in front of a blue screen so that the picture behind the silhouette could be constantly changing.	However, the one thing that stays the same in these ads is that there is music in the background and the silhouette is listening to that music on a white iPod through white headphones.
noLabel	Runoff voting can be influenced by strategic nomination; this is where candidates and political factions influence the result of an election by either nominating extra candidates or withdrawing a candidate who would otherwise have stood.	Runoff voting is vulnerable to strategic nomination for the same reasons that it is open to the voting tactic of 'compromising'.
noLabel	Traveling back to the statistics provided by the OJJDP, their website also says that in 2008, juveniles were the offenders in 908 cases of murder, which constitutes 9% of all murders committed that year .	Also related to homicides, in the 1980s 25% of the murders that involved juvenile delinquents as the offenders also involved an adult offender.
noLabel	There are voluminous amounts of testimony from thousands of survivors of the Holocaust, as well as the testimony of captured Nazi officers at the Nuremberg Trials and other times.	Holocaust deniers discount the testimony of officers claiming that these witnesses were tortured, or that Rudolf Höss allegedly signed a confession written in a language he did not understand (English) or that the Nuremberg Trial did not follow proper judicial procedures.
noLabel	Studies in the early 1990s suggested that lobbying exerted influence only "marginally", although it suggested that when lobbying activity did achieve political impacts, that the results of the political choices were sufficient to justify the expenditure on lobbying .	A fairly recent study in 2009 is that Washington lobbies are "far less influential than political rhetoric suggests", and that most lobbying campaigns do not change any views and that there was a strong entrenchment of the status quo .
noLabel	He then criticises the Jewish ritual of circumcision that would have him "take a baby boy's penis in my hand, cut around the prepuce, and complete the action by taking his penis in my mouth, sucking off the foreskin, and spitting out the amputated flap along with a mouthful of blood and saliva", and denounces the traditional African practice of female genital mutilation.	He concludes the chapter writing of the religious "wish for obliteration" — for a death in the form of the day of the Apocalypse.
noLabel	Historically and cross-culturally, adulthood has been determined primarily by the start of puberty (the appearance of secondary sex characteristics such as menstruation in women, ejaculation in men, and pubic hair in both sexes).	In the past, a person usually moved from the status of child directly to the status of adult, often with this shift being marked by some type of coming-of-age test or ceremony . 
noLabel	The bill was called for by President John F. Kennedy in his civil rights speech of June 11, 1963, in which he asked for legislation "giving all Americans the right to be served in facilities which are open to the public—hotels, restaurants, theaters, retail stores, and similar establishments," as well as "greater protection for the right to vote."	Kennedy delivered this speech following a series of protests from the African-American community, the most concurrent being the Birmingham campaign which concluded in May 1963. 
noLabel	In Portugal, the legal distinction between New and Old Christian was only ended through a legal decree issued by the Marquis of Pombal in 1772, almost three centuries after the implementation of the racist discrimination.	The limpieza de sangre doctrine was also very common in the colonization of the Americas, where it led to the racial separation of the various peoples in the colonies and created a very intricate list of nomenclature to describe one's precise race and, by consequence, one's place in society.
noLabel	This action is regarded as the first major operation against organized crime, and is generally viewed as the starting point of the war between the government and the drug cartels .	As time progressed, Calderón continued to escalate his anti-drug campaign, in which there are now about 45,000 troops involved in addition to state and federal police forces.
noLabel	History shows that bridging cultural gaps successfully and serving as a home to diverse peoples requires certain social structures, laws, and institutions that transcend culture.	Furthermore, the history of a number of ongoing experiments in multiculturalism, such as in the European Union, India, South Africa, Canada and the United States, suggests that workable, if not perfected, integrative models exist.
noLabel	The history these bills and the fact that Yee is a psychologist make their origins interesting when compared to most bills that have been signed into law in California.	Views both for and against these bills centered resoundingly on the burden of proof of the psychological literature that Yee claimed demonstrated the need for banning the sale of violent games to minors. 
noLabel	The controversial report received wide support among countries in the United Nations, while Western countries were split between supporters and opponents of the resolutions endorsing the report .	Critics of the report claimed that it contained methodological failings, legal and factual errors, and falsehoods, and devoted insufficient attention to the allegations that Hamas was deliberately operating in heavily populated areas of Gaza . 
noLabel	All agree that the planet's booming population and rising standards of living are set to put unprecedented demands on the materials that only Earth itself can provide.	Limitations on how much of these materials is available could even mean that some technologies are not worth pursuing long term.. "Virgin stocks of several metals appear inadequate to sustain the modern 'developed world' quality of life for all of Earth's people under contemporary technology" . 
noLabel	The extension of the pension period was not paired with an extension of the active labour period or a rise in pension contributions, resulting in a decline of replacement ratios.	In recent years, many countries have adopted policies to strengthen the financial sustainability of pension systems, although the challenges regarding pension adequacy remain.
noLabel	Israeli lawyer Charles Abelsohn criticized the objectivity of the committee members, citing Travers who said during the public hearings that "there have been instances of the shooting of children in front of their parents.	As an ex-soldier I find that kind of action to be very, very strange and very unique", asking the witness to comment on those insights . 
noLabel	As for the concern that productivity growth drives unemployment, the very idea is controversial, and it depends on whatever the true reality may be in the relationship of automation to unemployment.	Certainly a pattern of multiple jobless recoveries, where GDP grows while employment stagnates, makes the public wonder about firms' assurances that all layoffs are necessitated by business conditions alone.
noLabel	" Iran pointed out the claims had not been verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency and argued that "some countries are angry that our people defend their nuclear rights.	" "I think that some of the claims about our nuclear issue have turned into a repetitive and tasteless joke," Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said in response to the documents .
noLabel	The Reagan administration, as part of a wider campaign against leaks of information, used the prosecution of Morison as a "test case" for applying the Act to cover the disclosure of information to the press.	A March 1984 government report had noted that "the unauthorized publication of classified information is a routine daily occurrence in the U.S." but that the applicability of the Espionage Act to such disclosures "is not entirely clear" .
noLabel	While its supporters argue that only a free market can create healthy competition and therefore more business and reasonable prices, opponents say that a free market in its purest form may result in the opposite.	According to Klein and Ralston, the merging of companies into giant corporations or the privatization of government-run industry and national assets often result in monopolies (or oligopolies) requiring government intervention to force competition and reasonable prices . 
noLabel	- Línguas e Humanidades (Language and Human Studies) is chosen by students who want a career in Law, Languages and Psychology.	Besides the obligatory subjects for each grade, students take History during grades 10, 11 and 12; Geography or Spanish or French or German or Statistics (2 of these, and only 1 foreign language besides English) during grades 10 and 11.
noLabel	In February 2011, environmental journalist David Sassoon of Inside Climate News reported that Koch Industries were poised to be "big winners" from the pipeline .	In May 2011, Congressmen Waxman and Rush wrote a letter to the Energy and Commerce Committee which cited the Reuters story, and which urged the Committee to request documents from Koch Industries which relate to the Keystone XL pipeline . 
noLabel	Later in the day there were reports of at least three Buddhist monks and one woman confirmed killed in the firing by security forces in Yangon when thousands of people led by Buddhist monks continued their protest against the military junta .	A doctor in Yangon's general hospital confirmed that three injured monks had been admitted to the hospital after they were beaten up severely by the riot police at Shwedagon pagoda .
noLabel	A government survey in Sydney found that the proportion of the population attending pubs and clubs rose after smoking was banned inside them .	However, a ClubsNSW report in August 2008 blamed the smoking ban for New South Wales clubs suffering their worst fall in income ever, amounting to a decline of $385&nbsp;million.
noLabel	Further, there is sometimes an apparent rejection of utilitarian theories of deterrence as a basis for eliminating any cause of crime.	The only practical outcome said to be achievable is the minimization of the impact that crime might have on ordinary people.
noLabel	The out-fighter tends to be most successful against the brawler, whose slow speed (both hand and foot) and poor technique make them an easy target to hit for the faster out-fighter.	The out-fighter's main key is to stay alert, as the brawler only needs to land one good punch to finish the fight.
noLabel	Exceptionally high inflation combined with slow output growth, rising unemployment, and eventually recession to cause a loss of credibility in the Keynesian welfare-statist mode of regulation.	Under the influence of Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman, Western states embraced policy prescriptions inspired by laissez-faire capitalism and classical liberalism. 
noLabel	A competing hypothesis is based on linguistic/ethnographic work begun in the 19th century, and suggests circumcision was a common tribal custom among many Semitic tribes, including Jews, Arabs and Phoenecians, before they migrated from the Arabian peninsula.	Recent linguistic analysis is strengthening the case for the latter explanation, that is also more likely to convince those who consider the Bible to be a reliable historical document . 
noLabel	As mentioned above, some people believe that all crime comes down to a single situation in which an individual must make a rational or irrational decision, to commit the crime, or to not .	Those that believe that this rational choice option is tied to the very immutable nature of the person would have a hard time believing that there is any way to control the choices children make and eliminate the causes of juvenile delinquency. 
noLabel	In recent years there has been a backlash against perceived external environmental effects of mainstream agriculture, particularly regarding water pollution, resulting in the organic movement.	One of the major forces behind this movement has been the European Union, which first certified organic food in 1991 and began reform of its Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) in 2005 to phase out commodity-linked farm subsidies, also known as decoupling.
noLabel	In politics, racism is commonly located on the far right due to the far right’s common association with nativism, racism, and xenophobia .	However, racism has occurred in progressive politics such as the historical concept of White Man's Burden by Rudyard Kipling that claimed that whites had a moral obligation to bring civilization to allegedly barbaric “savage” non-white societies that were deemed as backward in comparison to white societies; and historically by liberal figures such as John Stuart Mill who denounced Hindu civilization in India as a backwards feudal society and saw Europeans as superior in terms of development of civilization to Hindus, thus legitimizing the right of the British to imperial rule in India .
noLabel	The limited insurance that is required does not cover the full cost of a major nuclear accident of the kind that occurred at Chernobyl or Fukushima.	An April 2011 report by Versicherungsforen Leipzig, a Leipzig company that specializes in actuarial calculations states that full insurance of German power plants against nuclear disasters would increase the price of nuclear electricity by €0.14/kWh ($0.20/kWh) to €2.36/kWh ($3.40/kWh), if the full potential damage sum of 6 trillion Euro is to be be paid as insurance fee over a time span of 10 to 100 years .
noLabel	The French occupation policy was not qualitatively different from that of the American and Russian occupation forces, it was just carried out on a smaller scale.	In order to put pressure on Bopp to evacuate the KWIP to France, the French Naval Commission imprisoned him for five days and threatened him with further imprisonment if he did not cooperate in the evacuation.
noLabel	Until 1992 UK forces also deployed US tactical nuclear weapons as part of a US-UK dual-key NATO nuclear sharing role .	This arrangement commenced in 1958 as Project E to provide nuclear weapons to the RAF prior to a sufficient number of Britain's own nuclear weapons becoming available. 
noLabel	The dumping of unwanted production surpluses onto the world market through export subsidies has depressed prices for many temperate agricultural commodities, with EU surpluses of exportable wheat a prime example.	(Despite several Common Agricultural Policy reforms, domestic support for wheat - as measured by OECD producer support estimates - declined only marginally from an average 52% of gross farm receipts in 1986-88, to around 48% in 1998-2000 .)
noLabel	Spousal love, according to Church teaching, is meant to achieve an unbroken, twofold end: union of husband and wife as well as transmission of life .	The unitive aspect includes a person's whole being that calls spouses to grow in love and fidelity "so that they are no longer two but one flesh" .
noLabel	Abusive home environments can inhibit the growth of social cognitive skills needed, for example, to understand the intentions of others .	Short-term longitudinal evidence is consistent with the view that a lack of social cognitive skills mediates the link between harsh parental discipline and aggressive conduct in kindergarten .
noLabel	Michel Foucault believed that torture had been phased out from modern society due to the dispersion of power; there was no need any more for the wrath of the state on a deviant individual.	Rather, the modern state receives praise for its fairness and dispersion of power which, instead of controlling each individual, controls the mass. 
noLabel	Modern proponents, such as Morris, argue that circumcision reduces the risks of urinary tract infections, penile cancer, HIV, balanitis, posthitis, phimosis, and prostate cancer as well as conferring sexual benefits .	In contrast, opponents of infant circumcision often question its effectiveness in preventing disease, and object to subjecting newborn boys, without their consent, to a procedure they consider to have questionable benefits, significant risks and a potentially negative impact on general health and later sexual enjoyment.
noLabel	On June 1, 2011, Palin stated her opposition to the DREAM Act, a bill that would provide conditional permanent residency to certain illegal and deportable alien students who graduate from U.S. high schools, who are of good moral character, arrived in the U.S. legally or illegally as minors and have been in the country continuously for at least five years prior to the bill's enactment: "The immigrants in the past, they had to literally and figuratively stand in line and follow rules to become U.S. citizens.	I'd like to see that continue, but unfortunately, the Dream Act kind of usurps that, the system, that is a legal system, to make sure that immigrants who want to be here legally, working hard, producing and supplying revenue and resources for their family, that they're able to do that right and legally.
noLabel	 The Sudanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying the "Sudan government, strongly condemning the repeated Israeli crimes, calls on the international community, including governments, organizations and peoples, to come together, more than [at] any time before, against the state of the Zionist enemy and to show the real power of law to prevent Israel from what is committing of crimes against humanity and genocide against the Palestinian people.	" The National Assembly of Sudan issued a statement saying "the parliament condemns the Israeli attack against international activists who were trying to deliver food for the civilians in Gaza", adding "the attack constitutes a major crime against civilians and should be condemned".
noLabel	The 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney, which had already seen controversy with numerous positive drug tests, would be the venue for one of the most scandalous events in the sport's history.	Spain was stripped of their intellectual disability basketball gold medals shortly after the Games closed after Carlos Ribagorda, a member of the victorious team and an undercover journalist, revealed to the Spanish business magazine Capital that most of his colleagues had not undergone medical tests to ensure that they had a disability.
noLabel	Family values such as nurturing children and encouraging them to do well in school need to be promoted as well as a non-authoritarian approach to parenting.	Harris also discusses the importance of discouraging teenage pregnancy and finding ways in which to decrease this phenomenon so that when children are born they are planned and wanted and thus have a better chance at breaking the cycle of poverty . 
noLabel	The Republicans were already preparing for further legal action before the final tally was announced by canvassing Republican voters whose ballots had been rejected.	On December 29, Rossi called for a re-vote, saying that "this election has been a total mess" and that a "revote would be the best solution for the people of our state and would give us a legitimate governorship".
noLabel	John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt suggest that the accusations of anti-Semitism leveled at critics of Israel are deliberately timed to defuse the impact of the criticisms.	They describe a pattern where accusations of anti-Semitism rise immediately following aggressive actions by Israel: following the Six-Day War, following the 1982 Lebanon War, and following exposure of "brutal behavior in the Occupied Territories" in 2002 . 
noLabel	The Scottish School of Common Sense led by Thomas Reid taught that the fact of the existence of God is accepted by people without knowledge of reasons but simply by a natural impulse.	That God exists, this school said, is one of the chief metaphysical principles that people accept not because they are evident in themselves or because they can be proved, but because common sense obliges people to accept them. 
noLabel	Some hold that many of the low-income jobs are not really a better option than unemployment with a welfare state (with its unemployment insurance benefits).	But since it is difficult or impossible to get unemployment insurance benefits without having worked in the past, these jobs and unemployment are more complementary than they are substitutes.
noLabel	Governor Stanley called the General Assembly into special session on November 31, 1955, to consider adopting the Gray Commission's report (although not its actual recommendations) .	During what one newspaper called a "hasty, almost hysterical four-day session", the General Assembly "adopted" the Gray Commission's recommendations—although it did not enact them into law .
noLabel	In Pakistan, an editorial in Dawn, the country's oldest English-language newspaper, said that there was no doubt that the Facebook initiative "was in poor taste and deserving of strong condemnation", adding that it was "debatable whether freedom of expression should extend to material that is offensive to the sensibilities, traditions and beliefs of religious, ethnic or other communities."	However, the editorial called the Lahore High Court's decision to block Facebook a "knee-jerk reaction", saying that "many users feel, and rightly so, that they can decide for themselves what is or is not offensive, and choose not to access material that is repugnant to their beliefs" and that the block might "have played right into the hands of those who think nothing of displaying or publishing material that denigrates their beliefs.
noLabel	Former Deputy Prime Minister Michael Cullen declared that he supported the monarchy, stating in 2004 he was "a sort of token monarchist in the Cabinet these days.	" However, in 2010 he repudiated that stance, taking the view that New Zealand should move towards a republic once the Queen's reign ends.
noLabel	One series of unprovoked crimes that specifically targeted White Americans is the Zebra murders that occurred in San Francisco between 1973 and 1974.	The Zebra murders were carried out by a group known as Death Angels (a radical splinter group of the Nation of Islam) that intended to kill whites to spread terror and earn favor and status within their sect. 
noLabel	Denmark's foreign minister Lene Espersen met in Cairo with the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar on 13 October 2010 and stated that the hurt caused to Muslims from cartoons lampooning the Prophet Mohammed was "very regrettable" .	She denies that this should be interpreted as an apology for the drawings, stating "I explained that the people of Denmark has no wish to violate or hurt the feelings of others.
noLabel	A large number of children inherited the Swedish crown over the course of the kingdom's existence, consequentlyreal power was held for long periods by regents (notably those of the Sture family) chosen by the Swedish parliament.	King Christian II of Denmark, who asserted his claim to Sweden by force of arms, ordered a massacre in 1520 of Swedish nobles at Stockholm.
noLabel	In single winner plurality voting, each voter is allowed to vote for only one candidate, and the winner of the election is whichever candidate represents a plurality of voters, that is, whoever received the largest number of votes.	This makes the plurality voting system among the simplest of all voting systems for voters and vote counting officials (it is however very contentious to draw district boundary lines in this system). 
noLabel	A state statute banning the practice, passed late that year at the urging of trade unions on the basis that the practice suppressed wages, was ruled unconstitutional less than four months later.	The industry, which had relocated to Brooklyn and other places on Long Island while the law was in effect, then returned to New York . 
noLabel	For example, some fissile material is used in a bomb, and in 1012 fissions an equal number of 131I and 137Cs atoms are formed.	Because the 131I has such a short half-life when compared with the 137Cs, the activity ratio of 131I to 137Cs will be very much in favour of the 131I one hour after the fission event. 
noLabel	Early delivery systems for nuclear devices were primarily bombers like the United States B-29 Superfortress and Convair B-36, and later the B-52 Stratofortress.	Ballistic missile systems, based on Wernher von Braun's World War II designs (specifically the V2 rocket), were developed by both United States and Soviet Union teams (in the case of the U.S., effort was directed by the German scientists and engineers although the Soviet Union also made extensive use of captured German scientists, engineers, and technical data). 
noLabel	The posting of a paper in a public place with a statement that it would be an acceptable sacrifice to God to kill an unjust President was ruled not to be in violation of the statute .	The statute does not penalize imagining, wishing, or hoping that the act of killing the President will be committed by someone else .
noLabel	Care work is unique in the category of public goods, however, in that receiving care also helps recipients develop skills, values, and habits that benefit themselves and others .	In short, care work, by developing peoples internal capacities, imbues them with future abilities to contribute to society in the form of a public good. 
noLabel	For example, Portland, Oregon, a U.S. city which has pursued smart growth policies, substantially increased its population density between 1990 and 2000 when other US cities of a similar size were reducing in density.	As predicted by the paradox, traffic volumes and congestion both increased more rapidly than in the other cities, despite a substantial increase in transit use. 
noLabel	He stated that Fitna and the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons were a reaction against the "blossoming of Islam," and that "these films and caricatures are disseminated under the pretext of freedom of information in Europe.	This is a great lie of Western liberal democracy, because anyone who speaks out against the official version of the Holocaust is jailed," referring to Holocaust denial .
noLabel	While Freud's ideas were ignored and embarrassing to Viennese society, his work provoked a serious challenge to Victorian prudishness by providing the groundwork for the ideas of sex drive and infant sexuality.	Freud's theory of psychosexual development proposed a model for the development of sexual orientations and desires; children emerged from the Oedipus complex, a sexual desire towards their parent of the opposite sex. 
noLabel	Another important factor that has been found to affect the quality of institutions and governance was the pattern of colonization (how it took place) and even the identity of colonizing power.	International agencies may be able to promote good governance through various policies of intervention in developing nations as indicated in a few African countries, but comparative analysis suggests it may be much more difficult to achieve in most poor nations around the world .
noLabel	In the United States of America, issues of obscenity raise issues of limitations on the freedom of speech and of the press which are otherwise protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.	The Supreme Court has found that obscenity is an exception to the constitutional rights under the First Amendment, and is usually limited to content that directly refers to explicit sexual acts that are publicly accessible, though it has at times encompassed other subject matters, such as spoken and written language that can be publicly transmitted and received by the general public. 
noLabel	Political budget compliance: Was acknowledged to be in strong need of future improvement, and for 2009 it was even found to be: "A lot worse than normal, due to economic control being more lax in a year with political elections".	In order to improve the level of budget compliance for upcoming years, the Greek government wanted to implement a new reform to strengthen the monitoring system in 2010, making it possible to keep better track on the future developments of revenues and expenses, both at the governmental and local level. 
noLabel	Wales, which had been conquered centuries earlier but had remained a separate dominion, was annexed to England under the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542 .	Henry VIII's son and successor, the young Edward VI, continued with further religious reforms but his early death in 1553 precipitated a succession crisis.
noLabel	Plantinga's objection would seem to apply to all atheist arguments that contend that God is improbable, such as evidential arguments about the problem of evil and the argument from nonbelief.	But the reason why theists and atheists do not usually address this prior to making their arguments is because they want to go beyond merely discussing whether God is maximally probable or impossible.
noLabel	The bad news is that in sports there will always be some athletes trying to find a crack in the system.	At this point, in baseball, word of mouth among some players is that hGH is the way to beat the system.
noLabel	“We recommend that existing border control agencies should be combined into a single frontier force on the basis of secondment and direct employment, but with clear lines of communication back to the parent agencies.	Pending the creation of a single frontier force, strategic co-direction of better joint working should be provided by a ministerial group to which the official Border Agencies Directors Group should report at least four times a year”. 
noLabel	Immigration Officers working in 24 hour ports-of-entry only had access to the main immigration database via telephone during office hours Monday to Friday.	For the most part, immigration officers worked as they had always done, in the dark, on the basis of the story they heard and the documents in front of them .
noLabel	According to unschooling pioneer John Holt, "..the anxiety children feel at constantly being tested, their fear of failure, punishment, and disgrace, severely reduces their ability both to perceive and to remember, and drives them away from the material being studied into strategies for fooling teachers into thinking they know what they really don't know."	Proponents of unschooling assert that individualized, child-led learning is more efficient and respectful of children's time, takes advantage of their interests, and allows deeper exploration of subjects than what is possible in conventional education. 
noLabel	One of the projectiles, which was 1.5 metres (five feet) in length, was claimed by the group to have "a range of five kilometres (two miles) and a three kilogram payload".	"We have a certain number of these rockets and we are going to use them when the time is right," said one of the armed militants . 
noLabel	If equilibrium is located on the classical range of the supply graph, an increase in government spending will lead to inflation without affecting unemployment.	There must also be enough money circulating in the system to allow inflation to persist—so that inflation depends on monetary policy.
noLabel	In ancient times "Many of the noblest and best of the Athenians always considered the Spartan state nearly as an ideal theory realised in practice.	" Many Greek philosophers, especially Platonists, would often describe Sparta as an ideal state, strong, brave, and free from the corruptions of commerce and money.
noLabel	This resulted in Germany's chancellor Angela Merkel and France's prime minister Nicolas Sarkozy issuing an ultimatum declaring that, unless the referendum resulted in the approval of the new measures, they would withhold an overdue €6bn loan payment to Athens, money that Greece needed by mid-December .	Papandreou cancelled the referendum the next day after the New Democracy Party, leaders of the opposition, agreed to back the agreement . 
noLabel	Independence of Irrelevant Alternatives (IIA)—.. if a non-winning candidate is added or removed (assuming votes regarding the other candidates are unchanged)?	For instance, plurality rule fails IIA; adding a candidate X can cause the winner to change from W to Y even though Y receives no more votes than before. 
noLabel	In 2007, Palin supported the Alaska Department of Fish and Game policy allowing Alaska the hunting of wolves from helicopters as part of a predator control program intended to increase moose and caribou populations .	The Program has come under criticism and legal actions from wildlife activists stating the purpose of the program is to increase the numbers of prey species to unsustainable levels for sport hunters, residents and non residents of Alaska. 
noLabel	But included in that 10-20% of land is the approximately 9 million square kilometers of seasonally dry-lands that humans have converted to deserts through the process of desertification .	The tallgrass prairies of North America, on the other hand, have less than 3% of natural habitat remaining that has not been converted to farmland . 
noLabel	A number of non-governmental organizations working on alcohol policy have raised questions about whether the restrictions on alcohol advertising in Article 15 are effective and being properly implemented.	For the Audiovisual Directive, they are calling on Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) to vote for a ban on alcohol adverts on televisions before 9.00 p.m . 
noLabel	Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may have an adverse effect on health, leading to reduced life expectancy and/or increased health problems .	Body mass index (BMI), a measurement which compares weight and height, defines people as overweight (pre-obese) if their BMI is between 25 and 30&nbsp;kg/m2, and obese when it is greater than 30&nbsp;kg/m2 . 
noLabel	Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez wrote in their work "Income Inequality in the United States,1913–1998" that "top income and wages shares(in the United States) display a U-shaped pattern over the century" and "that the large shocks that capital owners experienced during the Great Depression and World War II have had a permanent effect on top capital incomes..that steep progressive income and estate taxation may have prevented large fortunes from recovery form the shocks."	Saez and Piketty argue that the "working rich" are now at the top of the income ladder in the United States and their wealth far out-paces the rest of the country .
noLabel	The results using statistical controls to control for demographic and baseline state test scores found a positive effect among charter schools similar to a year spent in one of Boston’s selective exam schools, with math scores, for instance, showing positive effects of 0.18 and 0.22 standard deviations for charter middle and high schools respectively compared to an effect of 0.20 and 0.16 standard deviations for exam schools.	For pilot schools, the report found that in the middle school grades pilot school students modestly underperform relatives to similar students attending traditional BPS schools (-0.05 standard deviations in ELA and -0.07 in math) while showing slightly positive results in the high school grades for pilot schools (0.15 standard deviations for writing and 0.06 for math). 
noLabel	In the late 19th century, the German Historical School of economics diverged, with the emerging Austrian School of economics, led at the time by Carl Menger.	Later generations of followers of the Austrian School continued to be influential in Western economic thought in the early part of the 20th century. 
noLabel	SAGD has proved to be a major breakthrough in production technology since it is cheaper than CSS, allows very high oil production rates, and recovers up to 60% of the oil in place.	Because of its very favorable economics and applicability to a vast area of oil sands, this method alone quadrupled North American oil reserves and allowed Canada to move to second place in world oil reserves after Saudi Arabia.
noLabel	Industrial unionism thence proceeded primarily by combining craft unions into industrial formations, rather than through the birth of new industrial organizations.	Industrial organizations prior to 1922 included the National Transport Workers' Federation, the National Union of Railwaymen, and the Miners' Federation . 
noLabel	Large mobs of servicemen would enter civilian quarters looking to attack Mexican American youths, some of whom were wearing zoot suits, a distinctive exaggerated fashion popular among that group .	The disturbances continued unchecked, and even assisted, by the local police for several days before base commanders declared downtown Los Angeles and Mexican American neighborhoods off-limits to servicemen . 
noLabel	In California, three Chinese-owned "baby care centers" offer expectant mothers a place to give birth to an American citizen for a fee of $14,750, which includes shopping and sightseeing trips.	"We don't encourage moms to break the law — just to take advantage of it," explains Robert Zhou, the agency's owner.
noLabel	The United States Secret Service investigates suspected violations of this law and monitors those who have a history of threatening the President.	Because the offense consists of pure speech, the courts have issued rulings attempting to balance the government's interest in protecting the President with free speech rights under the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
noLabel	In 1986, the Reagan administration was opposed to the affirmative action requirements of this Executive Order and contemplated modifying it to prohibit employers from using "quotas, goals, or other numerical objectives, or any scheme[,] device, or technique that discriminates against, or grants any preference to, any person on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin."	The contemplated change was never issued because it faced bi-partisan opposition in Congress that threatened to counteract it by enacting Executive Order 11246 into law by a veto-proof majority .
noLabel	The rise of Nazism led to such a severe increase in the number of refugees from Germany that in 1933 the League created a High Commission for Refugees Coming from Germany.	On July 4, 1936 an agreement was signed under League auspices that defined a refugee coming from Germany as "any person who was settled in that country, who does not possess any nationality other than German nationality, and in respect of whom it is established that in law or in fact he or she does not enjoy the protection of the Government of the Reich" (article 1) .
noLabel	Radioactive iodine-131 is a common fission product; it was a major component of the radiation released from the Chernobyl disaster, leading to nine fatal cases of pediatric thyroid cancer and hypothyroidism.	On the other hand, radioactive iodine is used in the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases of the thyroid precisely because of the thyroid's selective uptake of iodine.
noLabel	Gifts for congresspersons and staffers can be problematic, since anything of sizeable value must be disclosed and generally such gifts are illegal .	Failure to observe gift restrictions was one factor which caused lobbyist Jack Abramoff to eventually plead guilty to a "raft of federal corruption charges" and led to convictions for 20 lobbyists and public officials, including congressperson Bob Ney and Bush deputy interior secretary Stephen Griles . 
noLabel	He holds a PhD from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, with a thesis entitled "Power, Knowledge and Control: The Politics of Education in Burma under Military Rule (1962-88)" under the supervision of the leading neo-Marxist sociologist of education Michael W. Apple.	In addition, he was educated at the University of California at Davis, the University of Washington, the University of Mandalay, and St Peter's Boys School in Mandalay.
noLabel	Each state receives a payment equal to its "Allocable Share," a percentage of the funds held in escrow that has been agreed upon by the settling states and memorialized in the MSA.	This "Allocable Share" (as measured by a percentage of the total funds in escrow) does not vary according to how many cigarettes are sold in a particular state in a given year. 
noLabel	Initially the Court took a restrictive view on what consisted of torture, preferring to find that states had inflicted inhuman and degrading treatment.	Thus the court held that practices such as sleep deprivation, subjecting individual to intense noise and requiring them to stand against a wall with their limbs outstretched for extended periods of time, did not constitute torture .
noLabel	Civil libertarians claim that Free Speech Zones are used as a form of censorship and public relations management to conceal the existence of popular opposition from the mass public and elected officials .	There is much controversy surrounding the creation of these areas&nbsp;— the mere existence of such zones is offensive to some people, who maintain that the First Amendment to the United States Constitution makes the entire country an unrestricted free speech zone .
noLabel	Hostility forced them into "Chinatowns" or ethnic enclaves in the larger cities, where they lived a culture apart and seldom assimilated.	The acquisition of Hawaii in 1898, with full citizenship for the residents of all races, greatly increased the Asian American population. 
noLabel	Hence, today the debate is over whether advertising or food labelling, or campaign contributions are speech.. if the rights to be protected by the First Amendment can only be effectively employed by a fraction of the citizenry, and their exercise of these rights gives them undue political power and undermines the ability of the balance of the citizenry to exercise the same rights and/or constitutional rights, then it is not necessarily legitimately protected by the First Amendment."	"Those with the capacity to engage in free press are in a position to determine who can speak to the great mass of citizens and who cannot" . 
noLabel	Latex has outstanding elastic properties: Its tensile strength exceeds 30&nbsp;MPa, and latex condoms may be stretched in excess of 800% before breaking.	 In 1990 the ISO set standards for condom production (ISO 4074, Natural latex rubber condoms), and the EU followed suit with its CEN standard (Directive 93/42/EEC concerning medical devices).
noLabel	It was only with the advent of ballistic missile submarines, starting with the George Washington class in 1959, that a survivable nuclear force became possible and second strike capability credible.	This was not fully understood until the 1960s when the strategy of mutually assured destruction was first fully described, largely by United States Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara. 
noLabel	3.1 Turbo/Kombo edition - This was an extremely rare hack for the arcade version, which tweaked the gameplay for more juggling and made the speed of Mortal Kombat up to Mortal Kombat II faster standards.	Other features include Sub-Zero's freeze tweaked to levitate opponents to the top of the screen, which meant more combo possibilities, and fight Reptile faster (without double Flawless Victories but still with a Fatality, even without going to The Pit stage) .
noLabel	However, the second maxim also opens the question of broader definitions of harm, up to and including harm to the society.	The concept of harm is not limited to harm to another individual but can be harm to individuals plurally, without specific definition of those individuals.
noLabel	In South Carolina, there was a shift toward rice plantations; while in other areas other sorts of much needed vegetation was grown for sustenance of the nation .	Another issue arose with the blockade of tobacco from the American colonies was a shift toward British use of Turkish and Egyptian tobacco.
noLabel	During an October 2004 debate, Obama stated that he opposed education vouchers for use at private schools because he believes they would undermine public schools .	In May 2009, it was reported that Obama would offer continued funding for the 1,716 Washington D.C. students who were currently enrolled in the city's voucher program until they graduated from high school, but that no new students would be admitted into the program . 
noLabel	In Scotland, as in England, monarchies emerged after the withdrawal of the Roman empire from Britain in the early fifth century.	The three groups that lived in Scotland at this time were the Picts in the north east, the Britons in the south, including the Kingdom of Strathclyde, and the Gaels or Scotti (who would later give their name to Scotland), of the Irish petty kingdom of Dál Riata in the west.
noLabel	By the time ovulation occurs, the cervix should contain a higher concentration of female sperm still capable of fertilization (with most of the male sperm already dead).	Intercourse close to ovulation, on the other hand, should increase the chances of conceiving a boy since the concentration of Y sperm is be higher at the height of the menstrual cycle .
noLabel	Research undertaken by the Worldwide Governance Indicators project at the World Bank, indicates that freedom of speech, and the process of accountability that follows it, have a significant impact in the quality of governance of a country.	"Voice and Accountability" within a country, defined as "the extent to which a country's citizens are able to participate in selecting their government, as well as freedom of expression, freedom of association, and free media" is one of the six dimensions of governance that the Worldwide Governance Indicators measure for more than 200 countries .
noLabel	The blocking of DailyMotion in early 2007 by Tunisian authorities was, according to the OpenNet Initiative, due to Secure Computing wrongly categorizing DailyMotion as pornography for its SmartFilter filtering software.	It was initially thought that Tunisia had blocked DailyMotion due to satirical videos about human rights violations in Tunisia, but after Secure Computing corrected the mistake access to DailyMotion was gradually restored in Tunisia . 
noLabel	The freedom of association is however not only exercised in the political sense, but also for a vast array of interests - such as culture, recreation, sport and social and humanitarian assistance.	Jeremy McBride agues that the formation of non-governmental organizations (NGOs), which he equates with civil society, is the "fruit of associational activity" .
noLabel	The report concluded that wind power "cannot be relied upon to provide significant levels of power" and "that there is an urgent need to re-evaluate the use of the energy source in future" .	There was an "angry response" to the report from the energy industry, and the body representing Scotland’s renewable energy refused to recognise the figures.
noLabel	Non-white South Africans were not allowed involvement in any governing matters, including voting; access to quality healthcare; the provision of basic services, including clean water; electricity; as well as access to adequate schooling.	Non-white South Africans were also prevented from accessing certain public areas, using certain public transportation and were required to live only in certain designated areas.
noLabel	However, it should be pointed out that these fuels may reduce the need for harvesting non-renewable energy sources, such as vast strip-mined areas and slag mountains for coal, safety zones around nuclear plants, and hundreds of square miles being strip-mined for oil sands.	These responses, however, do not account for the extremely high biodiversity and endemism of land used for ethanol crops, particularly sugar cane. 
noLabel	In December 2010, the Oil Sands Advisory Panel, commissioned by former environment minister Jim Prentice, found that the system in place for monitoring water quality in the region, including work by the Regional Aquatic Monitoring Program, the Alberta Water Research Institute, the Cumulative Environmental Management Association and others, was piecemeal and should become more comprehensive and coordinated .	A major hindrance to the monitoring of oil sands produced waters has been the lack of identification of individual compounds present.
noLabel	After a few more years of fighting, in 387 BC the Peace of Antalcidas was established, according to which all Greek cities of Ionia would return to Persian control, and Persia's Asian border would be free of the Spartan threat .	The effects of the war were to reaffirm Persia's ability to interfere successfully in Greek politics and to affirm Sparta's weakened hegemonic position in the Greek political system .
noLabel	Fahey compared the regime operating in the Premier League unfavourably to the frequent testing now undergone by Major League Baseball players, saying pointedly: "Team sports players can go their entire career without being tested once.	"The football authorities' response was to present, a little indignantly, the opposing view: that the testing regimes fully comply with Wada's own codes.
noLabel	According to Kant, The Enlightenment was "Mankind's final coming of age, the emancipation of the human consciousness from an immature state of ignorance and error."	According to historian Roy Porter, the thesis of the liberation of the human mind from the dogmatic state of ignorance that he argues was prevalent at the time is the epitome of what the age of enlightenment was trying to capture .
noLabel	Although the church developed very strict regulations on sexual activity that needed to be carried out to sustain the institutional and psychological structure of the Middle Ages, it had a hard time properly enforcing these regulations.	Most violations occurred in the privacy of the bedroom, so the only witnesses to the sin were the guilty parties themselves, and they did not usually confess to such crimes.
noLabel	Super Mario 64 on the N64, Crash Bandicoot on the PlayStation and Nights into Dreams on the Saturn, are prime examples of this trend.	Their 3D environments were widely marketed and they steered the industry's focus away from side-scrolling and rail-style titles, as well as opening doors to more complex games and genres.
noLabel	Increasingly, however, operators are storing lower-cost energy produced at night, then releasing it to the grid during the peak periods of the day when it is more valuable .	In areas where hydroelectric dams exist, release can be delayed until demand is greater; this form of storage is common and can make use of existing reservoirs.
noLabel	Proponents of MAD as part of U.S. and USSR strategic doctrine believed that nuclear war could best be prevented if neither side could expect to survive a full-scale nuclear exchange as a functioning state.	Since the credibility of the threat is critical to such assurance, each side had to invest substantial capital in their nuclear arsenals even if they were not intended for use.
noLabel	The ratio of average income for the top 20% to the bottom 20% in the same year and using the same index was 8.4:1.	According to these UN statistics, the United States has the third highest disparity between the average income of the top 10% and 20% to the bottom 10% and bottom 20% of the population, respectively, of the OECD countries, or the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development.
noLabel	A poll by Ipsos-Reid, also in June 2010, found that the majority two-in-three Canadians agree the royal family should not have any formal role in Canadian society, and reported growing sentiment that Elizabeth II should be Canada's last monarch.	The majority 58% of Canadians want Canada to end ties to monarchy when Queen Elizabeth II's reign ends, and the majority 62% of Canadians believe that Canada's head of state should be the Governor General, not the Queen . 
noLabel	There were, however, movements within this period that forwarded heterodox conceptions of the Christian God, including differing views of the nature, transcendence, and knowability of God.	Individuals and groups such as Johannes Scotus Eriugena, David of Dinant, Amalric of Bena, and the Brethren of the Free Spirit maintained Christian viewpoints with pantheistic tendencies.
noLabel	This appears to be the result of a negative relationship between employment creation and increased productivity, when a simultaneous positive increase is required to reduced poverty.	According to the UNRISD, increasing labour productivity appears to have a negative impact on job creation: in the 1960s, a 1% increase in output per worker was associated with a reduction in employment growth of 0.07%, by the first decade of this century the same productivity increase implies reduced employment growth by 0.54% . 
noLabel	Discrimination in housing policies was formalized in 1934 under the Federal Housing Act which provided government credit to private lending for home buyers.	Within the Act, the Federal Housing Agency had the authority to channel all the money to white home buyers instead of minorities.
noLabel	Some ATF agents and supervisors strongly objected, and gun dealers (who were cooperating with ATF) protested the sales, but were asked by ATF to complete the transactions to elucidate the supply chain and gather intelligence .	However, there are accusations that the ATF was attempting to boost statistics to 'prove' that American guns are arming the Mexican drug cartels and to further budget and power objectives . 
noLabel	Although the Israeli recording of a reporter describing a rocket launch was during the initial aerial bombardment phase the tower was only bombed in the final few days .	On December 29, the IDF destroyed the facilities and headquarters of Al-Aqsa TV (though broadcasts continue from elsewhere), and a week later, IDF soldiers entered the building and seized the equipment.
noLabel	According to critics, the total commercialization of all fields of society, the privatization of public space, the acceleration of consumption and waste of resources including the negative influence on lifestyles and on the environment has not been noticed to the necessary extent.	The "hyper-commercialization of the culture is recognized and roundly detested by the citizenry, although the topic scarcely receives a whiff of attention in the media or political culture.
noLabel	Turkey criticized the report for accepting Israel's blockade as legal, and Turkey's president Abdullah Gul said his country considered the report "null and void" .	Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu said the UN hadn't endorsed the Palmer report and that Turkey was going to challenge the legality of the blockade in the International Court of Justice .
noLabel	The proliferation of forks of popular projects can make it difficult to survey the landscape of forks and get a quick overview of what each one offers.	Forks on GitHub do not have any formal metadata other than the owner followed by the name, and initially their names and READMEs (if any) are identical to the original project's name and README respectively.
noLabel	The famous silting up of the harbor for Bruges, which moved port commerce to Antwerp, also followed a period of increased settlement growth (and apparently of deforestation) in the upper river basins.	In early medieval Riez in upper Provence, alluvial silt from two small rivers raised the riverbeds and widened the floodplain, which slowly buried the Roman settlement in alluvium and gradually moved new construction to higher ground; concurrently the headwater valleys above Riez were being opened to pasturage. 
noLabel	The Universal Declaration on Human Rights recognises a number of economic, social and cultural rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) is the primary international legal source of economic, social and cultural rights.	The Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women recognises and protects many of the economic, social and cultural rights recognised in the ICESCR in relation to children and women.
noLabel	There are two major bodies of thought on the causes of nationalism, one is the modernist perspective that describes nationalism as a recent phenomenon that requires the structural conditions of modern society, in order to exist; the other is the primordialist perspective that describes nationalism as a reflection of the ancient and perceived evolutionary tendency of humans to organize into distinct grouping based on an affinity of birth .	Roger Masters in The Nature of Politics says that both the primordialist and modernist conception of nationalism both involve an acceptance of three levels of common interest of individuals or groups in national identity.
noLabel	In France, helping an unathorized immigrant (providing shelter, for example) is prohibited by a law passed on December 27, 1994 .	The law was heavily criticized by non-governmental organizations such as Cimade and GISTI, left-wing political parties such as the Greens and the French Communist Party, and trade-unions such as the magistrates' Syndicat de la magistrature. 
noLabel	An athletic contest in which the participants 'go queer' in their heads, and strain their powers until their faces become hideous with the tortures that rack them, is not sport, it is brutality.	It appears from the reports of this singular performance that some of the bicycle riders have actually become temporarily insane during the contest.. Days and weeks of recuperation will be needed to put the racers in condition, and it is likely that some of them will never recover from the strain . 
noLabel	[2] The constitutionality of this system was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States in 2008,[3] whereas a partisan blanket primary was previously ruled to be unconstitutional in 2000.	[4] In the United States, Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, North Dakota, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Vermont, Virginia, Wisconsin.
noLabel	This is perhaps the most fundamental criticism of FPTP, that a large majority of votes may play no part in determining the outcome.	Alternative electoral systems attempt to ensure that almost all votes are effective in influencing the result and the number of wasted votes is consequently minimised.
noLabel	In some states the office of head of state is not expressed in a specific title reflecting that role, but constitutionally awarded to a post of another formal nature.	Thus in March 1979 Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, who kept absolute power (until his overthrow in 2011 referred to as "Guide of the Revolution"), after ten years as combined Head of State and Head of government of the Libyan Jamahiriya ("state of the masses"), styled Chairman of the Revolutionary Command Council, formally transferred both qualities to the General secretaries of the General People's Congress (comparable to a Speaker) respectively to a Prime Minister, in political reality both were his creatures. 
noLabel	In 2007, the American Psychiatric Association reviewed whether or not video game addiction should be added in the new DSM to be released in 2012.	The conclusion was that there was not enough research or evidence to conclude that video game addiction was a disorder .
noLabel	The IDF claims that targeted killings are only pursued to prevent future terrorism acts, not as revenge for past activities as such they are not extrajudicial.	The IDF also claims that this practice is only used when there is absolutely no practical way of foiling the future acts by other means (e.g., arrest) with minimal risk to its soldiers or civilians.
noLabel	The draft Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination was adopted by the General Assembly on November 20, 1963 .	The same day the General Assembly called for the Economic and Social Council and the Commission on Human Rights to make the drafting of a Convention on the subject an absolute priority .
noLabel	It has been defined as activities by a nation-state to penetrate another nation's computers or networks with the intention of causing civil damage or disruption .	Moreover it acts as the "fifth domain of warfare," and William J. Lynn, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, states that "as a doctrinal matter, the Pentagon has formally recognized cyberspace as a new domain in warfare .
noLabel	Israel's annexation of East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights in 1980-1 by the Jerusalem Law and the Golan Heights Law has not been recognised by any other country .	The Palestinian Authority, the EU, and the UN Security Council consider East Jerusalem to be part of the West Bank, a position disputed by Israel.
noLabel	Unless the censor has total control over all Internet-connected computers, such as in North Korea or Cuba, total censorship of information is very difficult or impossible to achieve due to the underlying distributed technology of the Internet.	Pseudonymity and data havens (such as Freenet) protect free speech using technologies that guarantee material cannot be removed and prevents the identification of authors.
noLabel	However, according to the FBI Hate Crime Statistics for 2007, the number of hate crimes decreased to 7,624 incidents reported by participating law enforcement agencies .	These incidents included 9 murders and 2 rapes(out of the almost 17,000 murders and 90,000 forcible rapes committed in the U.S. in 2007) . 
noLabel	On September 15, 2009, a 574 page report by UN inquiry team was released, officially titled "Human Rights in Palestine and Other Occupied Arab Territories: Report of the United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict".	It concluded that the Israel Defence Force (IDF) and Palestinian armed groups committed war crimes and possibly crimes against humanity .
noLabel	He was viewed during the time of the Council as a reformer, cooperating with theologians like Hans Küng and Edward Schillebeeckx.	Ratzinger became an admirer of Karl Rahner, a well-known academic theologian of the Nouvelle Théologie and a proponent of church reform. 
noLabel	The Americans will play in a qualifying tournament in August, with the top three teams there qualifying for next year's Olympics in Athens.	It's not anything I really have to worry about myself, Allen, traded two weeks ago from the Milwaukee Bucks to the Seattle SuperSonics, told The Associated Press.
noLabel	To yield the final grade for the student taking the language, all of the students' examination scores for that language are added; as the maximum total score is 200, the total is divided by 200% to yield the students' percentage score for the language subject.	The format described is the standard format for 2005; it varies slightly in weight for each section, with deletions of some sections if the student is taking Foundation English as part of the EM3 stream.
noLabel	In most cases of abortion, it is said, the pregnant woman was not raped but had intercourse voluntarily, and thus has either tacitly consented to allowing the embryo to use her body (the tacit consent objection), or else has a duty to sustain the embryo because the woman herself caused it to stand in need of her body (the responsibility objection).	Other common objections turn on the claim that the embryo is the pregnant woman's child whereas the violinist is a stranger (the stranger versus offspring objection); that abortion kills the embryo whereas unplugging the violinist merely lets him die (the killing versus letting die objection); or, similarly, that abortion intentionally causes the embryo's death whereas unplugging the violinist merely causes death as a foreseen but unintended side-effect (the intending versus foreseeing objection; cf the doctrine of double effect). 
noLabel	Also, top-down forcing should be reduced in less diverse ecosystems because of the bias for species in higher trophic levels to go extinct first .	Lastly, it has recently been shown that consumers can dramatically change the biodiversity-productivity-stability relationships that are implied by plants alone .
noLabel	Because of this and subsequent incidents by U.S. servicemembers on Okinawa, including another rape of a local woman by a U.S. Marine, the governors of fourteen Japanese prefectures in which U.S. military forces were stationed urged the ruling Liberal Democratic Party "to secure a true Japan-U.S. partnership through a revised Status of Forces Agreement."	On July 2, 2003, Japan and the United States opened negotiations into modifying the SOFA, but the negotiations failed to produce any change to the current agreement .
noLabel	Because Britain did not test as often as the United States due to financial and political reasons, and did not have the Americans' state-of-the-art computer facilities, British weapons design depended more on theoretical understanding, with potential for both greater advances and risks between tests.	The low numbers of UK tests is misleading when compared to the large numbers of tests carried out by the US, the Soviet Union, China, and especially France; because the UK has had extensive access to US test data, obviating the need for UK tests: and an added factor is that many tests required are for 'weapon effects tests'; tests not of the nuclear device itself, but of the nuclear effects on hardened components designed to resist ABM attack.
noLabel	Current research shows that tobacco smokers who are exposed to residential radon are twice as likely to develop lung cancer as non-smokers .	As well, the risk of developing lung cancer from asbestos exposure is twice as likely for smokers than for non-smokers . 
noLabel	During the Green Revolution of the 1960s and 1970s, for example, irrigation was a key factor in unlocking Asia's agricultural potential and reducing poverty.	Between 1961 and 2002, the irrigated area almost doubled, as governments sought to achieve food security, improve public welfare and generate economic growth.
noLabel	The extent to which the intermittency of solar-generated electricity is an issue will depend to some extent on the degree to which the generation profile of solar corresponds to demand.	For example, solar thermal power plants such as Nevada Solar One are somewhat matched to summer peak loads in areas with significant cooling demands, such as the south-western United States.
noLabel	The counter-recruitment movement was the successor to the anti-draft movement with the end of conscription in the United States in 1973, just after the end of the Vietnam War.	The military increased its recruiting efforts, with the total number of recruiters, recruiting stations, and dollars spent on recruiting each more than doubling between 1971 and 1974 .
noLabel	Legislative votes are determined by the intensity of personal preference, desires of constituents, and, ultimately, what will lead to the particular legislator’s greatest utility.	When people have ideologies at opposite ends of the political spectrum, it’s difficult to ensure a simple majority, so buying a supermajority vote through logrolling may be the most cost effective (Buchanan and Tullock 1962 ). 
noLabel	Rockets reached major Israeli cities Ashdod, Beersheba and Gedera for the first time, putting one-eighth of Israel's population in rocket range .	On January 3, 2009 Ma'an News Agency reported: "The Al-Qassam Brigades, military wing of Hamas, said that after a week since the start of the "Battle of Al-Furqan [the criterion]" it has managed to fire 302 rockets, at an average of 44 rockets daily" .
noLabel	Some observers have even suggested that the very progress of disarmament by the superpowers—which has led to the elimination of thousands of weapons and delivery systems—could eventually make the possession of nuclear weapons more attractive by increasing the perceived strategic value of a small arsenal.	As one U.S. official and NPT expert warned in 2007, "logic suggests that as the number of nuclear weapons decreases, the 'marginal utility' of a nuclear weapon as an instrument of military power increases.
noLabel	In United States v. American Library Association (2003) the Supreme Court ruled that Congress has the authority to require public schools and libraries receiving e-rate discounts to install filters as a condition of receiving federal funding.	The justices said that any First Amendment concerns were addressed by the provisions in the Children's Internet Protection Act that permit adults to ask librarians to disable the filters or unblock individual sites.
noLabel	While the GOP managed to convince small businesses and labor of its altruistic support for their interests, the increasing dominance of large corporations and their pushing out of the market of small manufacturers, artisans, craftsmans, and tradesmen ultimately called into question the GOP's true allegiance.	In reply, Southern Democrats gradually rebuilt their party, restored a modicum of small industries in the South and allied themselves with Northern Progressives both Republican and Democrat opposed to the Big Business domination of the GOP.
noLabel	An applicant initially presents his claim to an asylum officer, who may either grant asylum or refer the application to an Immigration Judge.	If the asylum officer refers the application and the applicant is not legally authorized to remain in the United States, the applicant is placed in removal proceedings.
noLabel	During their advance, Hamas and Islamic Jihad fighters ambushed Israeli troops at several locations, and heavy fighting ensued, in which 40 Hamas and Islamic Jihad fighters were killed .	Additionally, the IAF reported that Hamas operatives had tried to shoot down an IAF plane with anti-aircraft missiles for the first time since operations in Gaza began.
noLabel	Many scholars believe that this is because the United States has a lower level of "reciprocal altruism," and that this is in part a result of its ethnic heterogeneity.	A history of perceived high income mobility has promoted a normative belief in American culture that the individual who works hard and perseveres will experience a rise in income, and consequently, economic inequality is often viewed as the just cumulative result of varying degrees of personal responsibility .
noLabel	Third party programs were also written to handle the loading of various WADs, since the game is a DOS game and all commands had to be entered on the command line to run.	A typical launcher would allow the player to select which files to load from a menu, making it much easier to start. 
noLabel	Government regulators, consultants, or NGOs regularly monitor indicator species, however, there are limitations coupled with many practical considerations that must be followed for the approach to be effective .	It is generally recommended that multiple indicators (genes, populations, species, communities, and landscape) be monitored for effective conservation measurement that prevents harm to the complex, and oftentimes unpredictable, response from ecosystem dynamics (Noss, 1997).
noLabel	" He said the reason that it was not feasible was because "there is essentially no government in the world that is willing to surrender control over its domestic monetary policy."	However, it could be done if "you could re-establish a world in which government's budget accounted for 10 percent of the national income, in which laissez-faire reigned, in which governments did not interfere with economic activities and in which full employment policies had been relegated to the dustbin.." . 
noLabel	Economist Joseph Stiglitz wrote in October 2011 that the recession and high unemployment of the 2009-2011 period was years in the making and driven by: unsustainable consumption; high manufacturing productivity outpacing demand thereby increasing unemployment; income inequality that shifted income from those who tended to spend it (i.e., the middle class) to those who do not (i.e., the wealthy); and emerging market's buildup of currency reserves (to the tune of $7.6 trillion by 2011) which was not spent.	These factors all lead to a "massive" shortfall in aggregate demand, which was "papered over" by demand related to the housing bubble until it burst . 
noLabel	Many suicides occur in a period of improvement when the person has the energy and the will to turn despairing thoughts into destructive action.	However, a once-suicidal person is not necessarily always at risk: suicidal thoughts may return but they are not permanent and in some people they may never return .
noLabel	With an earmark, Congress directs a specified amount of money from an agency's budget to be spent on a particular project.	In the past Members of the Congress did not have to identify themselves or the project; however, as a result of recent reforms in Congress, earmarks are associated with requesting members in conference reports and members must certify that they and their immediate families have no direct financial interest in the earmark. 
noLabel	The First Amendment to the United States Constitution provides that "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof .." and Article VI specifies that "no religious Test shall ever be required as a Qualification to any Office or public Trust under the United States."	The modern concept of a wholly secular government is sometimes credited to the writings of English philosopher John Locke, but the phrase "separation of church and state" in this context is generally traced to a January 1, 1802 letter by Thomas Jefferson, addressed to the Danbury Baptist Association in Connecticut, and published in a Massachusetts newspaper.
noLabel	Although tobacco companies have been the main source of financial backing in Formula One, some alcohol brands have also been associated with the sport.	For example, Budweiser appears on the WilliamsF1 car and the Foster's Group (with the Foster's Lager brand) sponsor numerous circuits around the world, most notably Fosters Australian Grand Prix in Albert Park, Melbourne, Australia.
noLabel	The plan adopted the assignment factors listed by the Gray Commission, but also borrowed language from Supreme Court ruling in Brown v. Board of Education (which some legislators felt would help the statute pass court scrutiny) .	The Mann-Fenwick plan also permitted any parent to protest the assignment of a new pupil to their school (a process designed to give white parents the legal right to protest the assignment of a black student to an all-white school) .
noLabel	Critics of Dawkins' approach suggest that taking the gene as the unit of selection − of a single event in which an individual either succeeds or fails to reproduce − is misleading, but that the gene could be better described as a unit of evolution − of the long-term changes in allele frequencies in a population .	In The Selfish Gene, Dawkins explains that he is using George C. Williams' definition of the gene as "that which segregates and recombines with appreciable frequency.
noLabel	An addition to the Public Health Code was passed on the 31 December 1970, which punishes the "positive presentation of drugs" and the "incitement to their consumption" with up to five years in prison and fines up to €76,000.	Newspapers such as Libération, Charlie Hebdo and associations, political parties, and various publications criticizing the current drug laws and advocating drug reform in France have been repeatedly hit with heavy fines based on this law. 
noLabel	This is also a response to the UN's sanctions that were imposed in June 2009, after Pyongyang's atomic test in May 2009, as well as the new UN resolution that any nation can inspect a North Korean vessel that the investigating nation believes is carrying weaponry .	It has been suggested that the test firing of missiles is an act of defiance against the United States national holiday, Independence Day . 
noLabel	In its 2011 annual report, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom designated fourteen nations as "countries of particular concern".	The commission chairman commented that these are nations whose conduct marks them as the world’s worst religious freedom violators and human rights abusers.
noLabel	Where a prisoner had spent a long time on remand awaiting trial then there was every chance that they might be released immediately on being sentenced having already served their time.	IND would then have to decide quickly whether to hold the person in prison under immigration powers or whether to release them on restrictions pending further consideration of their future immigration status.
noLabel	There is no conventional designation for this category of policing in liberal democracies, however, and it should not be conflated with secret police, although secret police organizations do use high policing methods.	Calling it "secret" or "political" policing is too vague since all police work is somewhat both secret (police generally do not reveal their methods until a case is completed) and political (police enforce laws determined by the political system in power). 
noLabel	To minimize this problem, some range voting advocates suggest measures such as education or ballot design to encourage uninformed voters to give more-extreme rankings.	A different path to minimize this problem is to use median scores instead of total scores, as median scores are less amenable to exaggeration, as in majority judgment. 
noLabel	In the midst of World War I, Charles Schenck, then the general secretary of the Socialist party, was found guilty of violating the Espionage Act after a search of the Socialist headquarters revealed a book of Executive Committee minutes.	The book contained a resolution, dated August 13, 1917, to print 15,000 leaflets to be mailed to men who had passed exemption boards .
noLabel	There is a strict election law that takes effect a few months before elections which prohibits most speech that either supports or criticizes a particular candidate or party.	One can be prosecuted for political parodies and even for wearing a particular color (usually the color of a party) . 
noLabel	The increasing computing power and decreasing cost of processors as the Intel 80386, Intel 80486, and the Motorola 68030, caused the rise of 3D graphics, as well as "multimedia" capabilities through sound cards and CD-ROMs.	Early 3D games began with flat-shaded graphics (Elite, Starglider 2 or Alpha Waves), and then simple forms of texture mapping (Wolfenstein 3D). 
noLabel	Ricardo was a supporter of Say's Law and held the view that full employment is the normal equilibrium for a competitive economy .	He also argued that inflation is closely related to changes in quantity of money and credit and was a proponent of the law of diminishing returns, which states that each additional unit of input yields less and less additional output . 
noLabel	According to Paste Magazine, by April 30, 2010, "Norris’ small protest [had] grown to encompass 32 Facebook events with a combined total of over 11,000 people planning to participate.	" Ron Nurwisah of National Post noted, "Norris' backtracking might be a bit late as the event seems to have taken a life of its own," and Fox 9 also pointed out, "she may have started something she can't stop.
noLabel	" He further characterized it as often leading to pride, vanity, beliefs of one's own group's superiority, and contempt of outsiders .	Robert K. Merton comments that Sumner's additional characterization robbed the concept of some analytical power because, Merton argues, centrality and superiority are often correlated, but need to be kept analytically distinct . 
noLabel	Steven M. Cahn has argued that there exists a "problem of good" (or "Cacodaemony") which is a mirror image of the problem of evil.	The problem is the same except for that omnibenevolence is replaced by omnimalevolence, greater good is replaced by greater evil, and so on.
noLabel	It is directed by the non-profit-making Writers and Scholars International, Ltd. (WSI) in association with the UK-registered charity Index on Censorship (founded as the Writers and Scholars Educational Trust), which are both chaired by the British writer and broadcaster Jonathan Dimbleby.	WSI was created by poet Stephen Spender, Oxford philosopher Stuart Hampshire, the then editor of The Observer David Astor, writer and Soviet Union expert Edward Crankshaw.
noLabel	The Whitlam Government ended in 1975 with a dramatic constitutional crisis in which the Queen's representative, the Governor-General (then John Kerr), dismissed Whitlam and his entire ministry, appointing Opposition Leader Malcolm Fraser in his place.	This particular incident raised questions about the value of maintaining a supposedly "symbolic" office that still possessed many key, and potentially dangerous, political powers.
noLabel	Captain Beate Uhse in Germany founded a birth control business, and fought a series of legal battles continue her sales .	In Ireland, legal condom sales (only to people over 18, and only in clinics and pharmacies) were allowed for the first time in 1978.
noLabel	Prior to World War I, lung cancer was considered to be a rare disease, which most physicians would never see during their career .	With the postwar rise in popularity of cigarette smoking, however, the significant increase in lung cancer promoted nascent investigations into the link between smoking and cancer.
noLabel	It is notable that some presidential systems, while not providing for collective executive answerability to the legislature, may require legislative approval for individuals prior to their assumption of cabinet office and empower the legislature to remove a president from office (for example, in the United States of America).	In this case the debate centres on the suitability of the individual for office, not a judgement on them when appointed, and does not involve the power to reject or approve proposed cabinet members en bloc, so it is not answerability in the sense understood in a parliamentary system. 
noLabel	Jewish response to the decrees also took a more moderate form: circumcisions were secretly performed &nbsp;&ndash; even on dead Jews&nbsp;&ndash; .	Other Jews pursued a completely different approach, accepting the decrees, and even making efforts to restore their foreskins to better assimilate into Hellenistic society.
noLabel	A 2004 report by the immigrant rights lobbyist organization, the European Network Against Racism (ENAR), claimed that the Danish media devoted an excessive proportion of their time to the problems posed by immigrants, and most often Islamic immigrants, while often ignoring the problems that these immigrants face.	Over the 3 month period studied, from September 1 to November 20, 19 out of the 24 Jyllands-Posten's editorials on "ethnic issues" were negative, while 88 out of 120 op.
noLabel	On September 26, 1983, Stanislav Petrov received convincing indications of a US first strike launch against the USSR, but positively identified the warning as a false alarm.	Though it is unclear what role Petrov's actions played in preventing a nuclear war during this incident, he has been honored by the United Nations for his actions. 
noLabel	McCain, whose six years of captivity and torture in Vietnam made him a national celebrity, negotiated (in September 2006) a compromise in the Senate for the Military Commissions Act of 2006, suspending habeas corpus provisions for anyone deemed by the Executive Branch an "unlawful enemy combatant" and barring them from challenging their detentions in court.	Coming on the heels of a Supreme Court decision adverse to the White House, McCain's compromise gave a retroactive, nine-year immunity to U.S. officials who authorized, ordered, or committed acts of torture and abuse, and permitted the use of statements obtained through torture to be used in military tribunals so long as the abuse took place by December 30, 2005 .
noLabel	The Senate uses roll call voting in which a clerk calls out the names of all the senators, each senator stating "aye" or "no" when his or her name is announced.	The House reserves roll call votes for the most formal matters, as a roll-call of all 435 representatives takes quite some time; normally, members vote by using an electronic device.
noLabel	Though that regulation continues in effect for broadcasts originating within the country, it has been weakened by the European Court of Justice, which had found that Sweden was obliged to accept foreign programming, including those from neighboring countries or via satellite.	Greece’s regulations are of a similar nature, “banning advertisements for children's toys between 7 am and 10 pm and a total ban on advertisement for war toys" . 
noLabel	These unions typically distanced themselves from some of the doctrines of orthodox Marxism, such as the preference of atheism and from rhetoric suggesting that employees' interests always are in conflict with those of employers.	Some of these Christian unions have had some ties to centrist or conservative political movements and some do not regard strikes as acceptable political means for achieving employees' goals .
noLabel	Advocates for higher levels of selection such as Richard Lewontin, David Sloan Wilson, and Elliot Sober suggest that there are many phenomena (including altruism) that gene-based selection cannot satisfactorily explain.	The philosopher Mary Midgley, with whom Dawkins clashed in print concerning The Selfish Gene, has criticised gene selection, memetics and sociobiology as being excessively reductionist and suggests that the popularity of Dawkins' work is due to factors in the Zeitgeist such as the increased individualism of the Thatcher/Reagan decades . 
noLabel	During the 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, the Soviet Union truly developed an understanding of the effectiveness of U.S. ballistic missile submarine forces, and work on Soviet ballistic missile submarines began in earnest.	For the remainder of the Cold War, although official positions on MAD changed in the United States, the consequences of the second strike from ballistic missile submarines was never in doubt.
noLabel	The first known advertisement in the USA was for the snuff and tobacco products of P. Lorillard and Company and was placed in the New York daily paper in 1789.	Advertising was an emerging concept, and tobacco-related adverts were not seen as any different from those for other products: their negative impact on health was unknown at the time.
noLabel	Hydroelectricity is the term referring to electricity generated by hydropower; the production of electrical power through the use of the gravitational force of falling or flowing water.	It is the most widely used form of renewable energy, accounting for 16 percent of global electricity consumption, and 3,427 terawatt-hours of electricity production in 2010, which continues the rapid rate of increase experienced between 2003 and 2009 . 
noLabel	Deficit financing also helps to minimize the substantial risks and costs of developing programs for the networks and gives studios initial benefits as well.	The studio bears the difference between production costs and licensing fees, but recoups significantly more money if the show is sold in syndication.
noLabel	The World Bank assesses that the PNA has made significant progress on implementing the reform agenda laid out in the PRDP, and re-establishing law and order; Gaza, however, remains outside of the reforms as Hamas controls security and the most important ministry positions there.	Palestinian inter-factional tension continues in the West Bank and Gaza, with arrests of people and closures of NGOs by each side, resulting in a deterioration in the ability of civil society organizations to continue cater to vulnerable groups .
noLabel	Today, many influential Japanese figures such as politicians, actors, artists, and businessmen, are compelled to conceal their true Buraku heritage for fear of losing their positions because of such heavy prejudice .	The Burakumin are commonly compared to the untouchable caste present in the Indian caste system and the cagots of Europe, because of the similar lower class positioning in society as well as the discrimination from the greater population.
noLabel	In 1941, NDRC research was placed under direct control of Vannevar Bush as the OSRD S-1 Section, which attempted to increase the pace of weapons research.	In June 1942, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers took over the project to develop atomic weapons, while the OSRD retained responsibility for scientific research . 
noLabel	His district was numbered the Eighteenth District from 1971 to 1973; the Nineteenth District from 1973 to 1983; and the Sixteenth District from 1983 to 1993.	Presently numbered the Fifteenth, it is the smallest in the country in geographic size, encompassing Upper Manhattan and including such neighborhoods as Harlem, Spanish Harlem, Washington Heights, Inwood, Morningside Heights, and part of the Upper West Side, as well as a small portion of Queens in the neighborhood of Astoria.
noLabel	Very often polls ask people how they would vote if there were an election today, and the media uses the results to project the share of the national vote that different parties would achieve.	Such polls are very common in the period of an election campaign, when five or more different surveys may be published in a week, and the results are picked over in detail by political commentators.
noLabel	Also, not only is it important for children to be enrolled but countries will need to ensure that there are a sufficient amount of teachers and classrooms to meet the demand.	As of 2010 and 2015, the number of new teachers needed in sub-Saharan Africa alone equals the current teaching force in the region .
noLabel	Rather, individuals attain better health through the increased consumption of medical care, making them more productive and netting an overall benefit to societal welfare.	Also, Nyman suggests that individuals purchase insurance to obtain an income transfer when they become ill, as opposed to the traditionalist stance that individuals diversify risk via insurance. 
noLabel	The EU commission in Brussels updated their earlier predictions on January 19, 2009, expecting Germany to contract −2.25% and −1.8% on average for the 27 EU countries .	According to new forecasts by Deutsche Bank (end of November 2008), the economy of Germany will contract by more than 4% in 2009 . 
noLabel	An indicator species has a narrow set of ecological requirements, therefore they become useful targets for observing the health of an ecosystem.	Some animals, such as amphibians with their semi-permeable skin and linkages to wetlands, have an acute sensitivity to environmental harm and thus may serve as a miner's canary.
noLabel	The courts also chose to interpret the Bill of Rights conservatively, only on rare occasions applying it to find a contrary law inoperative.	The Bill of Rights did not contain all of the rights that are now included in the Charter, omitting, for instance, the right to vote and freedom of movement within Canada . 
noLabel	Participants stressed the broad importance of forest ecosystems and noted that forests comprise an inter-dependent web of animals, plants and microorganisms, which together provide a wide range of goods and services beyond carbon sequestration.	These include biodiversity conservation, rainfall generation and products that are crucial to the livelihoods of local forest dependent and indigenous peoples as well as to the economies of many countries. 
noLabel	Singer also advocated the preservation of "world heritage sites," unspoilt parts of the world that acquire a "scarcity value" as they diminish over time.	Their preservation is a bequest for future generations as they have been inherited from our ancestors and should be passed down to future generations so they can have the opportunity to decide whether to enjoy unspoilt countryside or an entirely urban landscape.
noLabel	The BBC quoted The Pentagon referring to the Iraq War Logs as "the largest leak of classified documents in its history."	Media coverage of the leaked documents focused on claims that the U.S. government had ignored reports of torture by the Iraqi authorities during the period after the 2003 war .
noLabel	Tariq Ramadan, a member of Tony Blair's committee to combat Islamic extremism, claims to see an "unholy alliance" between the anti-immigrant right wing in Europe and the dictatorial regimes in the Middle East.	As the reasoning goes, some seek to portray Muslims as enemies of Western values and incapable of integration in European society.
noLabel	The draft bill, which would increase the executive powers of the monarch, went before Parliament for a first reading in November.	Once approved by Parliament, the bill was then presented to voters in a referendum, and approved by 64% of those voting in 16 March 2003.
noLabel	Franz Cardinal König, Archbishop of Vienna suggested to his fellow electors a compromise candidate: the Polish Cardinal, Karol Józef Wojtyła .	Wojtyła won on the eighth ballot on the second day with, according to the Italian press, 99 votes from the 111 participating electors.
noLabel	number of castes in Backward class list went up to 2297 which is the increase of 60% from community list prepared by Mandal commission.	But it wasn't until the 1990s that the recommendations of the Mandala Commission were implemented in Government Jobs by Vishwanath Pratap Singh .
noLabel	Cheese Factories on the Moon: Why Earmarks are Good for American Democracy is a book by American political scientists Scott A. Frisch and Sean Q Kelly.	The title of the book was inspired by a quote by conservative Republican and former Senator Phil Gramm, who said: . 
noLabel	Due to infighting, arrests and the deaths of some of its top members, the Tijuana Cartel is a fraction of what it was in the 1990s and early 2000s, when it was considered one of the most potent and violent criminal organizations in Mexico by the police.	After the arrest or assassination of various members of the Arellano Felix clan, the cartel is currently headed by Luis Fernando Sánchez Arellano, a nephew of the Arellano Felix brothers.
noLabel	The 2012 Democratic presidential primaries and caucuses is the selection process by which voters of the Democratic Party will choose its nominee for President of the United States in the 2012 U.S. presidential election.	Incumbent President Barack Obama is seeking the Democratic Party nomination through a series of primary elections and caucuses culminating in the 2012 Democratic National Convention held September 3–6, in Charlotte, North Carolina.
noLabel	Its founders envisaged CND as a campaign by eminent individuals who would work through the Labour Party and lobby government for a change in defence policy.	The Labour Party voted at its 1960 Conference for unilateral nuclear disarmament, representing CND's greatest influence on national politics and coinciding with the highest level of public support for its policy of unilateralism .
noLabel	As abolition of the monarchy would require a constitutional amendment made only after the achievement of unanimous consent amongst the federal parliament and all ten provincial legislatures, republicans face difficulty in achieving their goal .	Further, though republicans have pointed to Ireland and India as models that could be adapted to Canada, no specific form of republic or selection method for a president has been decided on, and the Canadian populace remains largely indifferent to the issue . 
noLabel	Religious pluralism existed in classical Islamic ethics and Sharia law, as the religious laws and courts of other religions, including Christianity, Judaism and Hinduism, were usually accommodated within the Islamic legal framework, as seen in the early Caliphate, Al-Andalus, Indian subcontinent, and the Ottoman Millet system .	In medieval Islamic societies, the qadi (Islamic judges) usually could not interfere in the matters of non-Muslims unless the parties voluntarily choose to be judged according to Islamic law, thus the dhimmi communities living in Islamic states usually had their own laws independent from the Sharia law, such as the Jews who would have their own Halakha courts . 
noLabel	In the United States, Orthodox Jews are usually affiliated with the National Pro-Life Religious Council, whereas Conservative Judaism, Reconstructionist Judaism and Reform Judaism are usually aligned with the interfaith Religious Coalition for Reproductive Choice .	Nonetheless, Orthodox organizations such as the Orthodox Union and Agudas Yisrael have occasionally partnered with pro-choice organizations when necessary to insure that abortions will be available to women whose lives are endangered by the fetus. 
noLabel	In the US, the wind power industry has recently increased its lobbying efforts considerably, spending about $5 million in 2009 after years of relative obscurity in Washington .	By comparison, the US nuclear industry alone spent over $650 million on its lobbying efforts and campaign contributions during a single ten year period ending in 2008 .
noLabel	In fission weapons, a mass of fissile material (enriched uranium or plutonium) is assembled into a supercritical mass—the amount of material needed to start an exponentially growing nuclear chain reaction—either by shooting one piece of sub-critical material into another (the "gun" method) or by compressing a sub-critical sphere of material using chemical explosives to many times its original density (the "implosion" method).	The latter approach is considered more sophisticated than the former and only the latter approach can be used if the fissile material is plutonium. 
noLabel	Korotayev and Turchin have explored mathematically what the dynamical patterns of interaction between population and warfare (focusing on internal warfare) might be in both stateless and state societies.	Next, they have tested the model predictions in several empirical case studies: early modern England, Han and Tang China, and the Roman Empire.
noLabel	In these books Holt had not suggested any alternative to institutional schooling; he had hoped to initiate a profound rethinking of education to make schools friendlier toward children.	As the years passed he became convinced that the way schools were was what society wanted, and that a serious re-examination was not going to happen in his lifetime. 
noLabel	The various forms of the original statement are ambiguous: the slogan can be used to argue the benefits of propertied information, of liberated/free/open information, or of both.	It can be taken merely as an expression of an amoral fact of information-science: once information has passed to a new location outside of the source's control there is no way of ensuring it is not propagated further, and therefore will naturally tend towards a state where that information is widely distributed.
noLabel	The gun license is obtained from the Police, and one must be in good standing and at least 18 years old, but exceptions regarding age can be made.	To apply one must either be a member in an approved shooting club for at least six months or pass a hunting examination (jägarexamen).
noLabel	Despite this, he argued, naturalists still act as if morality is meaningful, leading to a belief that morality is normative, or holds objective truth.	Lewis believed that, owing to evidence of moral normativity, morality cannot be an illusion and so rejected naturalism on the grounds of morality .
noLabel	In the diagram, after the gerrymander, the Blue-dot party will win three seats and the Red-dot party only one seat, despite the existence of an equal number of voters overall for both parties.	In the United States, gerrymandering is a perfectly legal arrangement which is permitted according to rules specified by the United States Constitution which has spurred reformers to begin thinking about amendments.
noLabel	The development of a regional system of Human Rights protection operating across Europe can be seen as a direct response to twin concerns.	First, in the aftermath of the Second World War, the convention, drawing on the inspiration of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights can be seen as part of a wider response of the Allied Powers in delivering a human rights agenda through which it was believed that the most serious human rights violations which had occurred during the Second World War (most notably, the Holocaust) could be avoided in the future.
noLabel	Social disorganisation theory is intended to be applied to neighbourhood level street crime, thus the context of gang activity, loosely formed criminal associations or networks, socioeconomic demographic impacts, legitimate access to public resources, employment or education, and mobility give it relevance to organised crime.	Where the upper- and lower-classes live in close proximity this can result in feelings of anger, hostility, social injustice and frustration .
noLabel	In addition to independent study, the use of conference-type group study, which can include study networks (which can, in many instances, meet together online) as well as different types of seminars/workshops, can be used to facilitate learning.	A combination of traditional, distance, and conference-type study, or two of these three types, may be used for a particular continuing education course or program.
noLabel	In France, home to Europe’s largest population of Muslims — about 6 million — as well as the continent’s largest community of Jews, about 600,000, anti-Jewish violence, property destruction, and racist language has been increasing over the last several years.	Jewish leaders perceive the Muslim population as intensifying anti-Semitism in France, mainly among Muslims of Arab or African heritage, but also this anti-Semitism is perceived as also growing among Caribbean islanders from former colonies .
noLabel	Observers differ on both the morality and utility of inequality, whether, and/or how much inequality is necessary in society, what can be done about it.	It has been defended as necessary and beneficial, and attacked as a social evil correlated to everything from shorter life expectancy, to higher crime rates . 
noLabel	From a sports perspective, the hearing bodies will be the ones to decide what weight should be attached to e-mail messages, canceled checks and FedEx envelopes, and the criminal investigations will have their own outcomes.	While the principle of strict liability in anti-doping has a long history in sports law -- if it's in your body, you're guilty -- new waters are being charted with the specter of nonanalytic doping code violations.
noLabel	In the face of some continued post–World War II public apathy or antipathy toward the armed services, the SDF has difficulties in recruiting personnel.	The SDF has to compete for qualified personnel with well-paying industries, and most enlistees are "persuaded" volunteers who sign up after solicitation from recruiters.
noLabel	This will be the first visit by Pinheiro in four years; previously the military junta has refused to give their permission.	Pinheiro welcomed news of his invitation, telling Reuters news agency that it was "an important sign that the government wants to engage again in constructive dialogue with the UN and the Human Rights Council".
noLabel	Following the decision in 1989 to cancel the nuclear weapons program, the missile programs were allowed to continue until 1992, when military funding ended, and all ballistic missile work was stopped by mid-1993.	In order to join the Missile Technology Control Regime the government had to allow American supervision of the destruction of key facilities applicable to both the long range missile and the space launch programmes .
noLabel	Most studies indicated an association between lack of circumcision and increased risk of HIV, but the quality of evidence was judged insufficient to warrant implementation of circumcision as a public health measure.	The authors stated that the results of the three randomised controlled trials then underway would therefore provide essential evidence about the effects of circumcision as an HIV intervention . 
noLabel	The United States has argued that Iran's concealment of efforts to develop sensitive nuclear technology is prima facie evidence of Iran's intention to develop nuclear weapons, or at a minimum to develop a latent nuclear weapons capability.	Others have noted that while possession of the technology "contributes to the latency of non-nuclear weapon states in their potential to acquire nuclear weapons" but that such latency is not necessarily evidence of intent to proceed toward the acquisition of nuclear weapons, since "intent is in the eye of the beholder" . 
noLabel	Pope John Paul II, in his apostolic letter Christifideles Laici, states that women have specific vocations reserved only for the female sex, and are equally called to be disciples of Jesus .	This belief in different and complementary roles between men and women is exemplified in Pope Paul VI's statement "If the witness of the Apostles founds the Church, the witness of women contributes greatly towards nourishing the faith of Christian communities" .
noLabel	Czechoslovakia was early to act, reducing its age to 18 in 1946, and by 1968 a total of 17 states had made the reduction .	A large number of countries, particularly in Western Europe, reduced their voting ages to 18 during the 1970s, starting with the United Kingdom in 1970 with countries such as the US (26th Amendment), Canada, Australia and France following soon afterwards.
noLabel	In Canada, appeals by the judiciary to community standards and the public interest are the ultimate determinants of which forms of expression may legally be published, broadcast, or otherwise publicly disseminated .	Other public organisations with the authority to censor include the Canadian Human Rights Commission, various provincial human rights commissions, and the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission, along with self-policing associations of private corporations such as the Canadian Association of Broadcasters and the Canadian Broadcast Standards Council. 
noLabel	In counterpoint to this argument, lower-income communities already suffer from tobacco related illnesses at a disproportionately higher rater than their higher-income counterparts.	Proponents of this argument claim that tobacco-related diseases are already regressive, and that the tax increase is trying to decrease these rates of disease among lower income smokers by encouraging them to quit . 
noLabel	Both unschooling and natural learning advocates believe that children learn best by doing; a child may learn reading to further an interest about history or other cultures, or math skills by operating a small business or sharing in family finances.	They may learn animal husbandry keeping dairy goats or meat rabbits, botany tending a kitchen garden, chemistry to understand the operation of firearms or the internal combustion engine, or politics and local history by following a zoning or historical-status dispute.
noLabel	While non-aristocratic women were in many respects excluded from political and mercantile life in the Middle Ages, leading churchwomen were an exception.	Medieval abbesses and female superiors of monastic houses were powerful figures whose influence could rival that of male bishops and abbots: "They treated with kings, bishops, and the greatest lords on terms of perfect equality;.
noLabel	It was supported by “Convictions Clerks” and other specialist teams whose job was to log the notifications of new foreign national criminals and set the wheels of consideration in motion.	All of these functions were dispensed with without any reference to the courts or Prison Service who were left without the means of liaising with IND. 
noLabel	On May 25, 1964, the U.S. Supreme unanimously held in Griffin v. County School Board of Prince Edward County, that Prince Edward County's school closure violated the 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution and ordered the public schools reopened immediately .	The high court also struck down the tuition grants program, concluding that providing the grants while schools were closed violated the 14th Amendment .
noLabel	He has asserted that Congress had no power to impose a direct income tax and supports the repeal of the sixteenth amendment .	Rather than taxing personal income, which he says assumes that the government owns individuals' lives and labor, he prefers the federal government to be funded through excise taxes and/or uniform, non-protectionist tariffs .
noLabel	To provide a new exemption from the requirement to register public offerings with the SEC, for certain types of small offerings, subject to several conditions.	This exemption would allow use of the internet "funding portals" registered with the government, the use of which in private placements is currently extremely limited by current law.
noLabel	Enforcement offices would detain people that they believed presented a high risk but would have to release them when it became clear that resources did not exist to speed the application and appeal to a conclusion within a reasonable timeframe.	Those that were detected by enforcement offices and treated as illegal entrants might later find that the person had been refused asylum but then granted permission to stay under some other concession without any reference to them. 
noLabel	In mid-1988, he traveled for the first time in Europe for three weeks and then for five weeks in Kenya, where he met many of his paternal relatives for the first time .	He returned in August 2006 for a visit to his father's birthplace, a village near Kisumu in rural western Kenya . 
noLabel	There are some sociologists such as Durkheim who suggest there is a link between population density and the number of rules that must be imposed.	The theory goes that as people are moved closer together geographically their actions are more likely to noticeably impact others around them.
noLabel	With such a wide range of non-technical barriers, there is no "silver bullet" solution to drive the transition to renewable energy.	So ideally there is a need for several different types of policy instruments to complement each other and overcome different types of barriers . 
noLabel	Adolescents are also more susceptible to some physiological dangers, including premature cessation of bone growth, which can limit a person's height, doctors said.	By nature, teenagers are risk takers, and they are less likely to understand the health risks or to be concerned with potential side effects like infertility, atrophied testicles, high blood pressure, liver damage and prostate cancer, some of which may not appear for 20 or 30 years, doctors said.
noLabel	As of 2007, more than 80% of all primary and secondary students were enrolled in public schools, including 75% of those from households with incomes in the top 5%.	Public schools commonly offer after-school programs and the government subsidizes private after school programs, such as the Boys & Girls Club.
noLabel	The Olympics, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, and the National Football League also ban the use of anabolic steroids .	The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) maintains the list of performance-enhancing substances used by many major sports associations and includes all anabolic agents, which includes all anabolic steroids and precursors as well as all hormones and related substances .
noLabel	On 29 November 2005 the House of Commons voted 136-128 (on a free vote) against a Private Member's Bill for a reduction in the voting age to 16 proposed by Liberal Democrat MP Stephen Williams.	Parliament chose not to include a provision reducing the voting age in the Electoral Administration Act during its passage in 2006. 
noLabel	This legal regime criminalized and dehumanized an entire group of people by promulgating laws that only applied to them, with penalties including imprisonment and death.	These were what Martin Luther King Jr called unjust laws ΓÇô "a code that a numerical or power majority group compels a minority group to obey, but does not make binding on itself.
noLabel	The Pope qualified this by noting that, "rather than the theory of evolution, we should speak of several theories of evolution."	Some of these theories, he noted, have a purely materialistic philosophical underpinning which is not compatible with the Catholic faith: "Consequently, theories of evolution which, in accordance with the philosophies inspiring them, consider the mind as emerging from the forces of living matter, or as a mere epiphenomenon of this matter, are incompatible with the truth about man" . 
noLabel	“In sports adjustment into the logic of the media can contribute to the erosion of values such as equal chances or fairness, to excessive demands on athletes through public pressure and multiple exploitation or to deceit (doping, manipulation of results …).	It is in the very interest of the media and sports to counter this danger because media sports can only work as long as sport exists .
noLabel	This means that the higher a price a product can command on the market, the higher is the incentive to invest resources into the R&D process of it.	An IPR driven regime is therefore not a regime that is conductive to the investment of R&D of products that are socially valuable to predominately poor populations.
noLabel	"Other historians doubt the authenticity of this document and point out that the claims in it were patently false&nbsp;— there were in fact thousands of living Vendean prisoners, the revolt had been far from crushed, and the Convention had explicitly decreed that women, children and unarmed men were to be treated humanely .	It has been hypothesized that if the letter is authentic, Westermann may have been attempting to exaggerate the intensity of his actions and his success, because he was eager to avoid being purged for his opposition to sans-culotte generals (he was later guillotined together with Danton's group) . 
noLabel	Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Hamid Reza Asefi rejected the proposal saying, "We had already announced that any plan has to recognize Iran's right to enrich uranium" .	After the Iranian Revolution, Germany halted construction of the Bushehr reactor, the United States cut off supply of highly enriched uranium (HEU) fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor, and Iran never received uranium from France which it asserted it was entitled to.
noLabel	The first level is that at an inter-group level, humans respond to competition or conflict by organizing into groups to either attack other groups or defend their group from hostile groups .	The second level is the intragroup level, individuals gain advantage through cooperation with others in securing collective goods that are not accessible through individual effort alone .
noLabel	Although the Duke of York died in battle in 1460, his eldest son Edward IV led the Yorkists to victory in 1461.	The Wars of the Roses, nevertheless, continued intermittently during his reign and those of his son Edward V and brother Richard III.
noLabel	Since Palin was largely unknown outside Alaska before her selection by McCain, her personal life, policy positions, and political record drew intense media scrutiny .	On September 1, 2008, Palin announced that her daughter Bristol was pregnant and that she would marry the father, Levi Johnston .
noLabel	" However, these ads sour the public on the political process in general as most members of Congress seek to avoid blame .	One wrong decision or one damaging television image can mean defeat at the next election, which leads to a culture of risk avoidance, a need to make policy decisions behind closed doors, and concentrating publicity efforts in the members' home districts .
noLabel	On December 23, senior Hamas leader Mahmoud al-Zahar said that Hamas was willing to renew the cease-fire under the original terms, demanding an Israeli commitment to refrain from any military operation in the Strip and to keep the border crossings open.	Speaking with Egyptian newspaper al-Ahram, al-Zahar said that the movement would reassess the situation in Gaza once the 24 hours during which Hamas vowed to halt rocket fire had ended .
noLabel	Transit-oriented development (TOD) is a residential or commercial area designed to maximize access to public transport, and mixed-use/compact neighborhoods tend to use transit at all times of the day.	Many cities striving to implement better TOD strategies seek to secure funding to create new public transportation infrastructure and improve existing services.
noLabel	Whether by coagulation or radiation pressure, once the particles are at this lower atmospheric level cloud seeding can begin, permitting precipitation to wash the smoke aerosol out of the atmosphere by the wet deposition mechanism.	The chemical processes that affect the removal are dependant on the ability of atmospheric chemistry to oxidize the smoke, via reactions with oxidative species such as ozone and nitrogen oxides, both of which are found at all levels of the atmosphere .
noLabel	Religious apologists often respond that those guilty of such actions are merely misguided extremists and don't represent mainstream religion, or that such things are only exceptions and that, by and large, religion is a positive civilizing influence on society.	Atheists such as Hector Avalos counter that this may be a No true Scotsman fallacy in that apologists may decide which believers are considered "mainstream" and which are "extremist" on a basis that favors their position . 
noLabel	It is instead a clear recognition of the specificity of cultural goods and services, as well as state sovereignty and public services in this area.	Thought for world trade, this soft law instrument (strength in not binding) clearly became a crucial reference to the definition of the European policy choice.
noLabel	The difference is that whether or not proprietary software can be distributed, and what the fee would be, is at the proprietor's discretion.	With free software, anyone who has a copy can decide whether, and how much, to charge for a copy or related services . 
noLabel	The big dog in the fight was the result of the April 1994 formation of the Interactive Digital Software Association (IDSA), a trade group assembled from the most powerful game developers and publishers in the country.	In July 1994, the IDSA (renamed to the Entertainment Software Association in 2003) presented to Congress its proposal for an industry-controlled rating system; in September of that same year, the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) was unveiled. 
noLabel	(Note that Alberta's use of the notwithstanding clause is of no force or effect, since the definition of marriage is federal not provincial jurisdiction.	) The territory of Yukon also passed legislation once that invoked the notwithstanding clause, but the legislation was never proclaimed in force . 
noLabel	It is very difficult to get accurate figures for IDPs because populations are constantly fluctuating: some IDPs may be returning home while others are fleeing, others may periodically return to IDP camps to take advantage of humanitarian aid.	While the case of IDPs in large camps such as those in Darfur, western Sudan, are relatively well-reported, it is very difficult to assess those IDPs who flee to larger towns and cities.
noLabel	The imposition of fresh visa requirements as governments sought to relieve pressure on frontier controls led directly to an upsurge in the use of forged and falsified travel documents which, in turn, sparked off penalty legislation putting pressure on carriers to check documents prior to embarkation.	The latest development is the so-called inadmissable passenger who arrives with falsified documents, or no documents at all, and goes on to claim asylum...the reality is that increased migratory pressure has created an environment where most immigration policies are irrelevant because they bear so little relation to what actually happens". 
noLabel	In the United Kingdom, anabolic steroids are classified as class C drugs for their illegal abuse potential, which puts them in the same class as benzodiazepines.	In 2008, a study published in the Lancet suggested that anabolic steroids are less dangerous than most other illegal substances, and some legal ones .
noLabel	On 17 June 2010, Israel's Prime Minister's Office announced that Israel's security cabinet had agreed to relax Israel's blockade on the Gaza Strip, and issued an English-language press release, according to which a decision to ease the blockade had been made.	The English text reads: "It was agreed to liberalize the system by which civilian goods enter Gaza [and] expand the inflow of materials for civilian projects that are under international supervision."
noLabel	Tobacco-related diseases are some of the biggest killers in the world today and are cited as one of the biggest causes of premature death in industrialized countries.	In the United States about 500,000 deaths per year are attributed to smoking-related diseases and a recent study estimated that as much as 1/3 of China's male population will have significantly shortened life-spans due to smoking .
noLabel	On 31 December 2007 the Telecommunications Minister of the newly elected Labor government, Stephen Conroy, announced that Australia would introduce mandatory internet filtering.	Once more the reason given is that mandatory filtering is required to "provide greater protection to children from online pornography and violent websites" . 
noLabel	Nixon also saw ending the draft as an effective way to undermine the anti-Vietnam war movement, since he believed affluent youths would stop protesting the war once their own probability of having to fight in it was gone .	There was opposition to the all-volunteer notion from both the Department of Defense and Congress, so Nixon took no immediate action towards ending the draft early in his presidency . 
noLabel	Militants admitted to the location of Hamas weapon storage sites, in tunnels, in the homes of activists, and in citrus groves and mosques, and told of theory instruction given in mosques as well .	Following the visit of the British Army veteran Colonel Tim Collins to the ruins of one of the mosques targeted by the IDF in Rafah, he said that in his view the evidencies of the secondary explosion, that could have indicated weapon's storage in the mosque, are present .
noLabel	Initial plans were for the additional BCS bowl game to be held at the site of that year's championship game, such that the additional, non-championship bowl be named after the original bowl (e.g.	the Sugar Bowl when the championship is in New Orleans), and have the extra game just be called "The National Championship Game".
noLabel	The United Kingdom Government has declined to sign Protocol 12 on the basis that they believe the wording of protocol is too wide and would result in a flood of new cases testing the extent of the new provision.	They believe that the phrase "rights set forth by law" might include international conventions to which the UK is not a party, and would result in incorporation of these instruments by stealth.
noLabel	NRA Instructors can commonly be found at privately owned firearms ranges, and are commonly employed by the Boy Scouts of America on their summer camps.	NRA Instructors cannot issue Concealed Carry Permits, or Tax Stamps for restricted firearms types, such writs must be issued at the state, or federal levels of government. 
noLabel	The Constitution of India contains the right to freedom, given in articles 19, 20, 21 and 22, with the view of guaranteeing individual rights that were considered vital by the framers of the constitution.	The right to freedom in Article 19 guarantees the Freedom of speech and expression, as one of following six freedoms: .
noLabel	Following the observation that smoking improves condition of people with schizophrenia, in particular working memory deficit, nicotine patches had been proposed as a way to treat schizophrenia .	Some studies suggest that a link exists between smoking and mental illness, citing the high incidence of smoking amongst those suffering from schizophrenia and the possibility that smoking may alleviate some of the symptoms of mental illness, but these have not been conclusive. 
noLabel	Safe sex is sexual activity engaged in by people who have taken precautions to protect themselves against sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) such as AIDS .	It is also referred to as safer sex or protected sex, while unsafe or unprotected sex is sexual activity engaged in without precautions.
noLabel	Clinton Richard Dawkins, FRS, FRSL (born 26 March 1941), known as Richard Dawkins, is a British ethologist, evolutionary biologist and author.	He is an emeritus fellow of New College, Oxford, and was the University of Oxford's Professor for Public Understanding of Science from 1995 until 2008 . 
noLabel	Several U.S. court rulings confirmed this understanding, including the 1900 Supreme Court decision in Paquete Habana, a late 1950s decision in Reid v. Covert, and a lower court ruling in 1986 in Garcia-Mir v. Meese.	Further, the Supreme Court has declared itself as having the power to rule a treaty as void by declaring it "unconstitutional", although as of 2011, it has never exercised this power. 
noLabel	In 2001, the pro-Israel media-monitoring and advocacy group CAMERA claimed that Haaretz fueled anti-Israel bias, but a 2003 study in The Harvard International Journal of Press/Politics found that Haaretz reporting was more favorable to Israelis than Palestinians, and more likely to report stories from the Israeli side .	Many Israelis, however, feel that Haaretz is biased against their own country: in 2002, Israeli author Irit Linur canceled her subscription, accusing Haaretz of an anti-Zionist theme that turns too often to "foolish" and "wicked" journalism, and in 2009, Roni Daniel, the military and security correspondent for Israeli Channel 2 also canceled his subscription, citing the use of a television review section to criticize his reporting . 
noLabel	Homeschooling or homeschool (also called home education or home based learning) is the education of children at home, typically by parents but sometimes by tutors, rather than in other formal settings of public or private school.	Although prior to the introduction of compulsory school attendance laws, most childhood education occurred within the family or community, homeschooling in the modern sense is an alternative in developed countries to attending public or private schools. 
noLabel	In 1976 Japan ratified the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (adopted by the United Nations Security Council in 1968) and reiterated its intention never to "develop, use, or allow the transportation of nuclear weapons through its territory."	Nonetheless, because of its generally high technology level and large number of operating nuclear power plants, Japan is generally considered to be "nuclear capable," i.e., it could develop a usable weapon in a short period of time if the political situation changed significantly . 
noLabel	Since this path was chosen, the United States was, in its early days, essentially an advocate for the prevention of nuclear proliferation, though primarily for the reason originally of self-preservation.	A few years after the USSR detonated its first weapon in 1949, though, the U.S. under President Dwight D. Eisenhower sought to encourage a program of sharing nuclear information related to civilian nuclear power and nuclear physics in general.
noLabel	The climatic effects of the smoke from burning cities and industrial areas would last for several years, much longer than previously thought.	New climate model simulations, which are said to have the capability of including the entire atmosphere and oceans, show that the smoke would be lofted by solar heating to the upper stratosphere, where it would remain for years. 
noLabel	Less than half of parents with daughters under 18 talk to their girls about how to say no to boys, and about half talk to them about contraception .	While 78% of parents believe that their daughters can talk to them about any topic, only 54% of girls believe they can discuss any topic with them .
noLabel	In locations near or around a group of high-rise buildings, wind shear generates areas of intense turbulence, especially at street-level .	The risks associated with mechanical or catastrophic failure have thus plagued urban wind development in densely populated areas, rendering the costs of insuring urban wind systems prohibitive .
noLabel	This can also cause the country to fall into a liquidity trap, causing credit markets to freeze up and unemployment to increase.	Opponents point to cases in Ireland and Spain in which austerity measures instituted in response to financial crises in 2009 proved ineffective in combating public debt, and placing those countries at risk of defaulting in late 2010 .
noLabel	Initial applications for consideration would include, but not be limited to, the set of 115 already-used applications identified by the survey in Table 2, plus other widely used tools such as Python () that did not appear in this first set of results.	In formulating the list, quick consideration should be given in particular to high value, heavily used infrastructure and development tools such as Linux, OpenBSD, NetBSD, FreeBSD, Samba, Apache, Perl, GCC, GNAT, XFree86, OpenSSH, BIND, and sendmail.
noLabel	Wales and its governing body, the Welsh Rugby Union, make their home at Millennium Stadium, which is owned by the WRU.	Scotland's largest stadium, with a capacity of over 67,000, is Murrayfield in Edinburgh, home to the national team and the Scottish Rugby Union.
noLabel	"Though sex cells are placed in a part of the anatomy for the essential purpose of easily expelling them into the female for the purpose of reproduction, there are other elements in the sexual fluid which are the essence of blood, nerve, brain, and muscle.	When redirected in to the building and strengthening of these, we find men or women of the greatest endurance greatest magnetic power.
noLabel	According to English Common Law, which developed from the 12th century onward, all property which a wife held at the time of a marriage became a possession of her husband.	Eventually English courts forbade a husband's transferring property without the consent of his wife, but he still retained the right to manage it and to receive the money which it produced.
noLabel	The first free public school in America was the Syms-Eaton Academy (1634) in Hampton, Virginia, while the first tax-supported public school in America was in Dedham, Massachusetts.	In the United States, 88% of students attend public schools, compared with 9% who attend parochial schools, 1% who attend private independent schools, and 2% who are home-schooled. 
noLabel	Further, many states have underfunded pensions, meaning the state has not contributed the amount estimated to be necessary to pay future obligations to retired workers.	The Pew Center on the States reported in February 2010 that states have underfunded their pensions by nearly $1 trillion as of 2008, representing the gap between the $2.35 trillion states had set aside to pay for employees’ retirement benefits and the $3.35 trillion price tag of those promises . 
noLabel	On the other hand, most financial institutions and some economists feel that all too often, banks are accused unfairly of discrimination against minority owned businesses when said business is simply not worth such a credit risk, and that no one would find such a decision discriminatory if the business were not minority owned.	These charges of reverse racism or prejudicial analysis are a longstanding source of controversy in the study of economic discrimination .
noLabel	The core of the dam is zoned depending on the availability of locally available materials, foundation conditions and the material attributes.	The solid form is the more widely used of the two, though the hollow dam is frequently more economical to construct.
noLabel	Furthermore, when Sweden did develop, freed itself from the Hanseatic League and entered its golden era, the fact the peasantry had traditionally been free meant that more of the economic benefits flowed back to them rather than going to a feudal landowning class .	This was not the case in other countries of Europe like Poland where the peasantry was still bound by serfdom and a strong feudalistic land owning system.
noLabel	Because of the difficulties in making a working plutonium bomb, it was decided that there should be a test of the weapon, and Truman wanted to know for certain if it would work before his meeting with Stalin at an upcoming conference on the future of postwar Europe.	On July 16, 1945, in the desert north of Alamogordo, New Mexico, the first nuclear test took place, code-named "Trinity," using a device nicknamed "the Gadget."
noLabel	D'Holbach wrote and published this book &ndash; possibly with the assistance of Diderot &ndash; anonymously in 1770, describing the universe in terms of the principles of philosophical materialism: The mind is identified with brain, there is no "soul" without a living body, the world is governed by strict deterministic laws, free will is an illusion, there are no final causes, and whatever happens takes places because it inexorably must.	Most notoriously, the work explicitly denies the existence of God, arguing that belief in a higher being is the product of fear, lack of understanding, and anthropomorphism. 
noLabel	There were just four adverse findings, a tiny proportion, similar to the level of breaches found every year since 2007ΓÇæ08.Just one was a performance-enhancing stimulant, methylhexaneamine, for which the Barnet player Mark Marshall received a two-year ban from football; the other three were positive tests for cannabis out of competition.	Two players received a one-month suspension, the other was suspended for three months, and were not named according to the FA's policy not to do so for social, rather than performance-enhancing drugs, out of competition.The FA defends that policy by arguing that the culprits are offered "appropriate rehabilitation, to allow players to return to the game clean ΓÇª without being stigmatised for an offence that arose outside of the Wada requirements.
noLabel	Women who are exposed to images of “the ideal woman”, aka thin, are reported to have increased levels of body dissatisfaction, negative mood and depression, and lower levels of self-esteem.	The influence of the media on young women’s body image have led researchers to speculate that media might also play an important role in negative behaviors such as eating disorders.
noLabel	By that time, a number of authors, including Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens, who together with Dawkins were labelled "The Unholy Trinity" by Robert Weitzel, had already written books openly attacking religion .	According to the Amazon.co.uk website, the book led to a 50% growth in their sales of books on religion and spirituality (including anti-religious books such as The God Delusion and Hitchens's God is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything) and a 120% increase in the sales of the Bible .
noLabel	Further, the definitions are volitionally separable because those sections were not of critical importance to the passage of the Act and the legislative body would have adopted the Act had it foreseen the partial invalidation of the statute .	These definition sections were only included to avoid the possibility that a court would rule the terms unconstitutionally vague; the court found that the legislature would still have enacted the statute without this definition section . 
noLabel	While Ricketts is not directly involved in the team’s operations, his son, Tom Ricketts, is Cubs chairman and his three other children (Pete, Laura and Todd) are on the board of directors .	In November 2010, the Cubs announced a plan to seek $200 million in state-backed bonds for renovations to Wrigley Field .
noLabel	Washington is unusual for a U.S. state in that it only requires that an absentee ballot be postmarked by the day of the election to be valid, while most other states require the ballot to have arrived at the election office by that time.	Due to this as well as the state's high number of absentee ballots—more than 60% of all King County voters voted absentee—the initial result of the election was not known until November 17, the last day under state law for election results to be certified by each county's election officials. 
noLabel	Johann Gottfried von Herder (1744–1803) broke new ground in philosophy and poetry, specifically in the Sturm und Drang movement of proto-Romanticism.	Weimar Classicism ("Weimarer Klassik") was a cultural and literary movement based in Weimar that sought to establish a new humanism by synthesizing Romantic, classical and Enlightenment ideas.
noLabel	Another trend is to stage earlier and earlier primaries, given impetus by Super Tuesday and the mid-1990s move (since repealed) of the California primary and its bloc of votes—the largest in the nation—from June to March.	To retain its tradition as the first primary in the country (and adhere to a state law which requires it to be), New Hampshire moved their primary forward, from early March to early January. 
noLabel	In 1941 at Rothesay dock, Clydebank, a German spy posing as a steward on a Belgian vessel, named Alfons Louis Timmermans, was detained, made the short trip from the Royal Victoria School to Wandsworth Prison where he was later hanged in June 1942.	His is one of a number of entries in the refusal logs of the immigration service during World War 2 to show "Outcome - death by judicial execution" .
noLabel	The vetoes&nbsp;– which covered 36 spreadsheet pages&nbsp;– drew praise from those who believed the budget originally reflected too much spending, but anger from those who thought Palin went too far .	The $231&nbsp;million in cuts represented over 300 local projects including an expansion of the Port of Anchorage and the Fire Island wind energy project .
noLabel	Tobacco companies have frequently targeted the female market, seeing it as a potential growth area as the largest market segment has traditionally been male.	The introduction of the 1960s Virginia Slims brand, and in particular its "You’ve Come a Long Way Baby" and "Slimmer than the fat cigarettes men smoke" campaigns, was specifically aimed at women . 
noLabel	In order for the socioeconomic data to be uniform and therefore comparable across countries and project sites, research partners (mainly PhD students) from a number of universities and research institutes collected quarterly data at the household and village level using standardised definitions, questionnaires and methods.	The study sites were chosen to obtain widely representative coverage of different geographical regions, forest types, forest tenure regimes, levels of poverty, infrastructure and market access, and population density. 
noLabel	In 1985 Joel Feinberg introduced what is known as the "offence principle", arguing that Mill's harm principle does not provide sufficient protection against the wrongful behaviours of others.	Feinberg wrote "It is always a good reason in support of a proposed criminal prohibition that it would probably be an effective way of preventing serious offense (as opposed to injury or harm) to persons other than the actor, and that it is probably a necessary means to that end.
noLabel	Some provinces use the term employment equity in conjunction with their enforcement of provincial-level human rights legislation (for example, British Columbia), but no province has a law that is an analogue to the federal Employment Equity Act.	The government of Quebec requires that employers show preference to people with disabilities, which could be considered a form of employment equity legislation .
noLabel	The Court said that the lower courts had repudiated a central premise of Casey — that the state has an interest in preserving fetal life — and the Court held that the ban fit that interest so as not to create an undue burden.	Relying deferentially on Congress's findings that this intact dilation and extraction procedure is never needed to protect the health of a pregnant woman, Kennedy wrote that a health exception was therefore unnecessary.
noLabel	Merriam-Webster's Dictionary named the word "austerity" as its "Word of the Year" for 2010 because of the number of web searches this word generated that year.	According to the president and publisher of the dictionary, "austerity had more than 250,000 searches on the dictionary's free online [website] tool" and the spike in searches "came with more coverage of the debt crisis" .
noLabel	After watching footage of Israeli troop deployments on television, a British soldier who completed numerous combat tours in Iraq and Afghanistan with the Intelligence Corps defended the Israeli Army's use of white phosphorus.	The soldier noted, "White phosphorus is used because it provides an instant smokescreen, other munitions can provide a smokescreen but the effect is not instant.
noLabel	Two of his amendments were signed into law and they subjected any National Security Letter and its gag order to a judicial challenge by the recipient, and narrowed the scope of "Sneak and Peek" warrants to have definite time limits on their duration and extensions before they need to notify the target of the investigation .	Before that "Sneak and Peek" warrants could be extended by the vague standard of not "unduly delaying trial" without any defined time limitation .
noLabel	There are only two in the whole of the US, one in South America and one in Africa.But there is also the fundamental conflict of interest between cheerleader and regulator that is depressingly exemplified by the UCI (International Cycling Union).This week Fahey called its handling of the institutional doping in its sport "inept".	But it would argue that it at least now has introduced biological passports to detect changes in blood values ΓÇô other sports remain a long way behind.
noLabel	In 2005 Brazilian Environment Minister Marina da Silva announced that of forest had been felled in the previous year, compared with more than in 2003 and 2004 .	Between 2005 and 2006 there was a 41% drop in deforestation; nonetheless, Brazil still had the largest area of forest removed annually on the planet . 
noLabel	Would-be immigrants have been known to suffocate in shipping containers, boxcars, and trucks, sink in shipwrecks caused by unseaworthy vessels, die of dehydration or exposure during long walks without water.	An official estimate puts the number of people who died in illegal crossings across the U.S.-Mexican border between 1998 and 2004 at 1,954 (see immigrant deaths along the U.S.-Mexico border). 
noLabel	Relative amounts of overyielding (or how much more a species grows when grown with other species than it does in monoculture) should be used rather than absolute amounts as relative overyielding can give clues as to the mechanism by which diversity is influencing productivity, however if experimental protocols are incomplete, one may be able to indicate the existence of a complementary or facilitative effect in the experiment, but not be able to recognize its cause.	Experimenters should know what the goal of their experiment is, that is, whether it is meant to inform natural or managed ecosystems, as the sampling effect may only be a real effect of diversity in natural ecosystems (managed ecosystems are composed to maximize complementarity and facilitation regardless of species number).
noLabel	Such a system, they assert, does not make for a society which is at ease with itself, and it encourages attitudes which are more suited to a bygone age of imperialism than to a "modern nation".	Some claim that maintaining a privileged royal family diminishes a society and encourages a feeling of dependency in many people who should instead have confidence in themselves and their fellow citizens . 
noLabel	One billion people, one-sixth of the world's population, or one-third of urban population, now live in shanty towns, which are seen as "breeding grounds" for social problems such as crime, drug addiction , alcoholism, poverty and unemployment.	In many poor countries, slums exhibit high rates of disease due to unsanitary conditions, malnutrition, and lack of basic health care . 
noLabel	As more practitioners tried circumcision as a treatment for otherwise intractable medical conditions, sometimes achieving positive results, the list of ailments reputed to be treatable through circumcision grew.	By the 1890s, hernia, bladder infections, kidney stones, insomnia, chronic indigestion, rheumatism, epilepsy, asthma, bedwetting, Bright's disease, erectile dysfunction, syphilis, insanity, and skin cancer had all been linked to the foreskin, and many physicians advocated universal circumcision as a preventive health measure.
noLabel	It is worth noting that nicotine, although frequently implicated in producing tobacco addiction, is not significantly addictive when administered alone .	The addictive potential manifests itself after co-administration of an MAOI, which specifically causes sensitization of the locomotor response in rats, a measure of addictive potential .
noLabel	The light heavyweight division was dominated in the early part of the decade by Roy Jones, Jr., a former middleweight champion, and the Polish-German Darius Michalczewski.	Michalczewski held the WBO title, while Jones held the WBC, WBA, and IBF titles, two of which had been relinquished by Michalczewski.
noLabel	Drug misuse is a term used commonly for prescription medications with clinical efficacy but abuse potential and known adverse effects linked to improper use, such as psychiatric medications with sedative, anxiolytic, analgesic, or stimulant properties.	Prescription misuse has been variably and inconsistently defined based on drug prescription status, the uses that occur without a prescription, intentional use to achieve intoxicating effects, route of administration, co-ingestion with alcohol, and the presence or absence of abuse or dependence symptoms .
noLabel	.. "as a soldier who has run a war against an opponent not dissimilar to Hamas, facing problems perhaps similar to those faced by Israeli commanders, my sympathies tend to lie with the Israelis."	.. "But having stated my prejudice, I think I may be more honest than Goldstone, who seems to pass off his prejudices in a report that cannot be based on fact, and uses judicial language and credibility to do so.
noLabel	The sovereign's position as Head of the Armed Forces  is reflected in New Zealand's naval vessels bearing the prefix Her Majesty's New Zealand Ship (His Majesty's New Zealand Ship in the reign of a male monarch), and in the requirement that all members of the armed forces swear their allegiance to the sovereign and his or her heirs and successors.	 The Governor-General commissions officers to command the forces; Saluting of these individuals by soldiers is, besides a sign of personal respect, an indirect salute to the monarch and her authority. 
noLabel	|- The Sudanese government strongly condemned Israeli air raids and called on the UN Security Council and the world society to shoulder their responsibility and exert pressures on Israel to stop the aggressions and lift its blockade against the Palestinian people.	The ruling National Congress Party issued a statement, denouncing that the Israeli aggressions using the American weapons has demonstrated the savagery and barbarianism of the military mechanism of Israel .
noLabel	A refugee camp is a place built by governments or NGOs (such as the International Committee of the Red Cross) to receive refugees.	People may stay in these camps, receiving emergency food and medical aid, until it is safe to return to their homes or until they are retrieved by other people outside the camps.
noLabel	Patents can generally only be enforced through civil lawsuits (for example, for a U.S. patent, by an action for patent infringement in a United States federal court), although some countries (such as France and Austria) have criminal penalties for wanton infringement .	Typically, the patent owner will seek monetary compensation for past infringement, and will seek an injunction prohibiting the defendant from engaging in future acts of infringement.
noLabel	In modern console games, arcade games, and personal computer games, multiplayer usually implies that the players play together by using several controllers plugged into the same game system.	Home console games often use split-screen so that each player has an individual view of the action (important for genres such as first person shooter and racing video games), although most arcade games and some console games (ranging from Pong) do not.
noLabel	In the case of brit milah, there are modern antiseptic and antibiotic techniques- all used as part of the brit milah today- which definitely accomplish the intended purpose of metzitzah, which is now known to not necessarily help itself.	However, since metzitzah does not in and of itself cause any harm, and as it is so enshrined in practice, it is generally practiced to this day as well. 
noLabel	However, due to the limitations clause, where a violation of a right exists, the law will not necessarily grant protection of that right .	In contrast, rights under the US Bill of Rights are absolute and so a violation will not be found until there has been sufficient encroachment on those rights.
noLabel	Dawkins' book The God Delusion, released in September 2006, goes on to examine the topics raised in the documentary in greater detail.	The documentary was rebroadcast on the More4 channel on the 25 August 2010 under the title of The God Delusion .
noLabel	To date, the code has been embraced by the International Olympic Committee, 33 international sports federations, 195 national Olympic committees and more than 110 governments, including the United States.	As the world agency was being created, so was the United States Anti-Doping Agency, the nation's lead agency in the Balco investigations.
noLabel	However, in his memoirs, Paul Tibbets, commander of the 509th Composite Group said the code names were part of an Air Force cover story.	According to Tibbets, Project Silverplate, the Air Force program to modify the B-29 to carry atomic bombs, was given the cover story of existing to modify the B-29 into a passenger plane.
noLabel	On January 18, 2007, FUNAI reported also that it had confirmed the presence of 67 different uncontacted tribes in Brazil, up from 40 in 2005.	With this addition, Brazil has now overtaken the island of New Guinea as the country having the largest number of uncontacted tribes .
noLabel	Many scientists, such as Bethe, urged that the United States should not develop such weapons and set an example towards the Soviet Union.	Promoters of the weapon, including Teller, Ernest Lawrence, and Luis Alvarez, argued that such a development was inevitable, and to deny such protection to the people of the United States&mdash;especially when the Soviet Union was likely to create such a weapon themselves&mdash;was itself an immoral and unwise act. 
noLabel	The Korean Empire (Korean: 대한제국, Hanja: 大韓帝國) from 1897 to 1910 - was an empire of Korea that succeeded the Joseon Dynasty that ruled the nation over the past 500 years.	On August 22, 1910, the Korean Empire was annexed by Japan with the Japan-Korea Annexation Treaty, beginning a 35-year period of Korea under Japanese rule. 
noLabel	Asked whether his concern about steroid use would cause him to lose interest in sports, Shuman said: I don't think I ever will.	I just hope that we can come to grips with this and see athletes with their real abilities rather than with something that is going to enhance their performance.
noLabel	The Free Software Foundation (FSF), started in 1985, intended the word "free" to mean freedom to distribute (or "free as in free speech") and not freedom from cost (or "free as in free beer").	Since a great deal of free software already was (and still is) free of charge, such free software became associated with zero cost, which seemed anti-commercial. 
noLabel	While development aid is an important source of investment for poor and often insecure societies, aid's complexity and the ever expanding budgets leave it vulnerable to corruption, yet discussing it remains difficult as for many it is a taboo subject .	Corruption is very hard to quantify as it is often hard to differentiate it from other problems, such as wastage, mismanagement and inefficiency, to illustrate the point, over US $8.75 billion was lost to waste, fraud, abuse and mismanagement in the Hurricane Katrina relief effort .
noLabel	The Amnesty report, published in July 2009, said Palestinian militants rocket fire from the Gaza Strip was "indiscriminate and hence unlawful under international law", regardless of small number of civilian casualties .	Hamas official rejected the report as "unbalanced, unfair and unprofessional," calling the firing of rockets "self defense" and a legitimate response to Israel's actions . 
noLabel	Some of the issues surrounding immobility have been addressed but changes forced on operational staff, who in the case of enforcement staff have to earn formal accreditation, have included the imposition of non-qualified managers.	This, and the dramatic planned reductions in staff which, in 2011, are already seeing the most experienced officers leave, may have long term consequences which are impossible to predict.
noLabel	Alexis de Tocqueville argued that the Revolution was a manifestation of a more prosperous middle class becoming conscious of its social importance .	Other thinkers, like the conservative Edmund Burke, maintained that the Revolution was the product of a few conspiratorial individuals who brainwashed the masses into subverting the old order—a claim rooted in the belief that the revolutionaries had no legitimate complaints .
noLabel	As a freshman representative, Rangel focused on the drug issue, and was a member of the House Select Committee on Crime.	In February 1971, he criticized the Nixon administration for not taking stronger action against Turkey and France, the source and manufacture points for most of the heroin coming into the U.S .
noLabel	The reason that civil wars and violence are correlated with the discovery of mineral wealth in the developing world is the world market for the commodities.	This is one area of free trade which has few supporters, and conflict diamonds cannot be openly imported into any country. 
noLabel	In mid-February 2010, WikiLeaks received a diplomatic cable from the US Embassy in Reykjavik relating to the Icesave scandal, which they published on 18 February .	The cable, known as Reykjavik 13 was the first of the classified documents WikiLeaks published among those allegedly provided to them by US Army Private Bradley Manning.
noLabel	The "religious test" clause has been interpreted to cover both elected officials and appointed ones, career civil servants as well as political appointees.	Religious beliefs or the lack of them have therefore not been permissible tests or qualifications with regard to federal employees since the ratification of the Constitution.
noLabel	Yields of 5.2 megatons/ton and higher have been reported for large weapons constructed for single-warhead use in the early 1960s .	Since this time, the smaller warheads needed to achieve the increased net damage efficiency (bomb damage/bomb weight) of multiple warhead systems, has resulted in decreases in the yield/weight ratio for single modern warheads.
noLabel	In Spain, general Francisco Franco adopted the formal title Jefe del Estado, or Chief of State, and established himself as regent for a vacant monarchy.	Uganda's Idi Amin was one of several who made themselves President for Life, and even later adopted an additional monarchic title. 
noLabel	It may not be possible to eradicate drug use in sports, scientists said, but it is possible to clean up the elite levels of competition.	Such an effort, however, could cost $50 million to $100 million in education and improved testing over the next five years, scientists said.
noLabel	As part of the British disdain for American independence, the British seized and destroyed over 10,000 hogsheads of tobacco in 1780–1781.	Led by generals Phillips, Arnold and Cornwallis, this attack on the American tobacco industry is sometimes entitled the “Tobacco War” by historians . 
noLabel	There are the ones like Shane Warne who make much of giving up with the aid of their paying friends at Nicorette.	(Naturally, the only thing Shane would test positive for now is Este Lauder products not botulism, as detractors of his intriguing new look keep suggesting.)
noLabel	Rangel disagreed with the committee's finding, saying: Because they were my staff members who knew, one of whom has been discharged, [the committee has decided] that I should have known.	Common sense dictates that members of Congress should not be held responsible for what could be the wrongdoing, or mistakes, or errors of staff . 
noLabel	Agnew (1992) treats anger as the most critical emotion since it is almost always directed outwards and is often related to breakdowns in relationships.	Research shows that the stress/crime relationship appears to hold regardless of guilt feelings, age, and capacity to cope when events occur simultaneously or in close succession.
noLabel	The IDF strictly controls travel within the area of the crossing points between Israel and the Gaza Strip, and has sealed its border with Gaza.	The security environment within Gaza and along its borders, including its border with Egypt and its seacoast, is dangerous and can change at any time . 
noLabel	The Israeli army said it destroyed about 80% of the tunnels between Gaza and Egypt that were being used to bring in weapons and rocket components.	Residents in Rafah said they cleared away debris and discovered that many of the tunnels were intact, though they acknowledged the destruction of many .
noLabel	It has since been suggested that to deport all of the irregular migrants from the UK would take 20 years and cost up to £12 billion .	Current Mayor of London Boris Johnson has commissioned a study into a possible amnesty for illegal immigrants, citing larger tax gains within the London area which is considered to be home to the majority of the country's population of such immigrants . 
noLabel	During World War II, the United States Navy, concerned that strikes and labor disputes in U.S. eastern shipping ports would disrupt wartime logistics, released the mobster Lucky Luciano from prison, and collaborated with him to help the mafia take control of those ports.	Labor union members were terrorized and murdered as a means of preventing labor unrest and ensuring smooth shipping of supplies to Europe . 
noLabel	Determined to maintain their cultural and linguistic distinctiveness in the face of British colonial domination and massive immigration of English speaking people to the pre-Confederation Province of Canada, this survivalist determination is a cornerstone of current Québécois identity and much of the political discourse in Quebec.	The English Canadian writer and philosopher John Ralston Saul also considers the Ultramontane movement of Catholicism as playing a pivotal and highly negative role in the development of certain aspects of Québécois identity .
noLabel	Most other religions do not engage in this discussion; for example, Sikhs have no objection to birth control, and in Buddhism there is no widely recognized policy on birth control.	Neopagans almost universally embrace birth control both as a way to safely enjoy a positive natural experience, and as exercise of feminine empowerment.
noLabel	Its definition of 'Free Trade' is trade on a level playing field, so that the unlimited exchange of goods between countries is not necessarily 'Free'.	If a country with aircraft producers, say, subsidizes corporate research and development (R&D) or enacts regulations requiring the industry to procure its aircraft part suppliers be domestic producers, then the WTO considers this a violation of Free Trade, even when the barriers to trade are not imposed at the national borders in an import-export transaction step (like a tariff).
noLabel	While local protests at French oil giant Total Oil's garages were taking place from October on, the first global consumers' boycott of Total Oil (which also owns ELF and FINA) and U.S.-based Chevron (which also owns Texaco, Caltex and Unocal) was called for on 16 November 2007 because the corporations to be able to exploit Yadana natural gas pipeline in southern Burma are paying to the junta an estimated $450million/year and are now lobbying in the U.S. and Europe against government measures to support a democratic transition in Burma.	In order to protect Total's interests, the government has become an obstacle to any serious strengthening of EU measures against Burma.
noLabel	During Toomey's tenure in Congress, he supported legislation that would speed up approval of forest thinning projects in 2003, supported opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling and development, opposed implementing the Kyoto Protocol, and opposed legislation that would mandate increased vehicle fuel efficiency standards and provide incentives for alternative fuels .	In 2003, Toomey was given a 0% rating by the League of Conservation Voters, indicating what the organization considers to be an anti-environmental voting record.
noLabel	The theory of White privilege in America may be seen as having its roots in the system of legalized discrimination that existed for much of American history.	 In her book Privilege Revealed: How Invisible Preference Undermines America, Stephanie M. Wildman writes that many Americans who advocate a merit-based, race-free worldview do not acknowledge the systems of privilege which have benefited them.
noLabel	Those who objected had to perform civilian service, lasting for six months, during which they may have found employment with a civilian institution that renders a public service, such as a kindergarten, hospital, rehabilitation center or assisted living facility for the elderly.	Alternative service could be more convenient than military service since the draftee could continue living at home rather than in military barracks.
noLabel	In the United States, a law against blasphemy, or a prosecution on that ground, would fall afoul of the American Constitution.	The First Amendment to the United States Constitution provides "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press.." While there are no federal laws which forbid "religious vilification" or "religious insult" or "hate speech", some states have blasphemy statutes.
noLabel	One study found that smokers exhibit better reaction-time and memory performance compared to non-smokers, which is consistent with increased activation of dopamine receptors .	Neurologically, rodent studies have found that nicotine self-administration causes lowering of reward thresholds—a finding opposite that of most other drugs of abuse (e.g.
noLabel	Since older white males predominantly control blue-collar trades, they are more likely to offer varying forms of assistance to those in their social network, often other whites.	Assistance can be anything from job vacancy information, referrals, direct job recruitment, formal and informal training, and vouching behavior and leniency in supervision.
noLabel	3) From an institutional point of view, major emphasis has been put on inclusive participation and control by civil society within PRODESIS’ Consultative Council, whose “civil society college” currently includes 30 members of regional and national civil society organisations.	The renowned Chiapas expert and EZLN’s external consultant during the negotiation of the San Andres Agreement, Professor Jan de Vos, is also a member of that Consultative Council.
noLabel	These critics range from those who reject markets entirely, in favour of a planned economy, such as that advocated by various Marxists, to those who merely wish to see market failures regulated to various degrees or supplemented by certain government interventions.	For example, Keynesians recognize a role for government in providing corrective measures, such as use of fiscal policy for economy stimulus, when decisions in the private sector lead to suboptimal economic outcomes, such as depression or recession, which manifest in widespread hardship.
noLabel	No one would pay to attend or sponsor the Olympics, according to Yesalis of Penn State, if the public address announcer said, You've just witnessed the 254th-fastest running of the 200 meters.	Ungerleider, the sports psychologist from Oregon, said: We're caught up in a culture of aggression and entertainment and 'whatever it takes to get it done.'
noLabel	On January 23, Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi said that the bill was on track to be presented to President Obama for him to sign into law before February 16, 2009 .	Although 206 amendments were scheduled for floor votes, they were combined into only 11, which enabled quicker passage of the bill . 
noLabel	The BCS continued to purge ranking systems which included margin of victory, causing the removal of the Matthews and David Rothman (statistician) ratings before the 2002 season.	Sagarin provided a BCS-specific formula that did not include margin of victory, and the New York Times index returned in a form without margin of victory considerations.
noLabel	The purpose of the state secrets privilege is to prevent courts from revealing state secrets in the course of civil litigation (in criminal cases, the Classified Information Procedures Act serves the same purpose).	The government may intervene in any civil suit, including when it is not a party to the litigation, to ask the court to exclude state secrets evidence.
noLabel	During the 2006 California heat storm output from wind power in California significantly decreased to an average of 4% of capacity for 7 days .	A similar result was seen during the 2003 European heat wave, when the output of wind power in France, Germany, and Spain fell below 10% during peak demand times . 
noLabel	In June 2008, a group of congressional Democrats criticized McCain for voting against 2005 legislation that would have toughened sanctions against Iran.	"McCain tries to give the impression that he's tough on Iran, but when it came time to stand up to party leaders and Big Oil, John McCain stood down," said senator Frank Lautenberg . 
noLabel	Smoking in the Americas probably had its origins in the incense-burning ceremonies of shamans but was later adopted for pleasure or as a social tool.	The smoking of tobacco and various hallucinogenic drugs was used to achieve trances and to come into contact with the spirit world. 
noLabel	It is believed that gambling addiction may, in part, be influenced by the gambler's own erroneous beliefs about the nature of probability.	If one approaches gambling with the intent of winning and they initially end up losing, the only way for them to break even or win in the long run is to keep playing . 
noLabel	In addition, there is often no such formal deal but only a mutual understanding, for instance when it is common knowledge in a municipality that to obtain a building permit one has to pay a "fee" to the decision maker to obtain a favourable decision.	A working definition of corruption is also provided as follows in article 3 of : For the purpose of this Convention, "corruption" means requesting, offering, giving or accepting, directly or indirectly, a bribe or any other undue advantage or prospect thereof, which distorts the proper performance of any duty or behavior required of the recipient of the bribe, the undue advantage or the prospect thereof.
noLabel	On March 3, 2008 Israel, according to the IDF, was free to search for factories, terrorist infrastructure, Qassam warehouses and rocket launchers in the 2 towns.	In the evening, Israel pulled out its troops from the Gaza Strip, but Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said the operation ended but Israel would soon return to counter the rocket firing and said the airstrikes "would continue" .
noLabel	Considered by Russian authorities an "economic migrant", he was sentenced to 6 months in prison and was to be deported to the country of his nationality after serving his sentence, even though he may now risk an even heavier penalty there.	That was just one of the 26 cases year-to-date of illegal entrants, of various nationalities, receiving criminal punishment in Amur Oblast .
noLabel	Local police arrested 80 or so suspects from left-wing groups, including Giuseppe Pinelli, an anarchist initially blamed for the bombing, and Pietro Valpreda.	Their guilt was denied by left-wing members, especially by members of the student movement, then prominent in Milan's universities, as they believed that the bombing was carried out by fascists.
noLabel	Some feel free trade will tend to create economies too dependent on narrow specialties, those that are the numeric comparative advantage.	When demand for those narrow specialties drops, the adjustment will be much more difficult than if existing diversification was already in place.
noLabel	Grand Theft Auto IV has much more realistic gameplay than its predecessors, no characters from previous games appear in GTA IV; according to Dan Houser "virtually none of the characters from the previous games returned, as a lot of them are dead anyway.	" The game once again takes place in a redesigned Liberty City that very closely resembles New York City, much more than previous renditions . 
noLabel	The Legacy Tobacco Documents Library (LTDL) is a digital archive of tobacco industry documents, funded by the American Legacy Foundation and created and maintained by the University of California, San Francisco.	The Library contains over 13 million documents produced by major tobacco companies and organizations, many of them internal strategic memoranda made public as a consequence of the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement.
noLabel	According to Kei Wakaizumi, one of Sato's policy advisers, Sato realized soon after making the declaration that it might be too constraining.	He therefore clarified the principles in a February 1968 address to the Diet by declaring the "Four Nuclear Policies" ("Four-Pillars Nuclear Policy"): . 
noLabel	During the course of the war some 900 Jews and 300 Roma passed through the concentration camp Banjica in Belgrade, intended primarily for Serbian communists, royalists and other patriots who resisted occupation.	The German puppet regime in Croatia, on the other hand, began actively persecuting Jews on its own initiative, so the Legal Decree on the Nationalization of the Property of Jews and Jewish Companies was declared on October 10, 1941 in the Independent State of Croatia.
noLabel	Hitchens first connects the Book of Isaiah in the Old Testament with its prediction that "a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son" (see Isaiah 7:14), pointing out where the stories converge, Old Testament to New.	Comparing the Testaments, he considers the New Testament "also a work of crude carpentry, hammered together long after its purported events, and full of improvised attempts to make things come out right."
noLabel	Second, the Convention was a response to the growth of Communism in Eastern Europe and designed to protect the member states of the Council of Europe from communist subversion.	This, in part, explains the constant references to values and principles that are "necessary in a democratic society" throughout the Convention, despite the fact that such principles are not in any way defined within the convention itself . 
noLabel	Sutherland outlined some very basic points in his theory, such as the idea that the learning comes from the interactions between individuals and groups, using communication of symbols and ideas.	When the symbols and ideas about deviation are much more favorable than unfavorable, the individual tends to take a favorable view upon deviance and will resort to more of these behaviors. 
noLabel	The PwC research found that among FTSE 350 companies in the United Kingdom in 2002 almost 40% of senior management posts were occupied by women.	When that research was repeated in 2007, the number of senior management posts held by women had fallen to 22% . 
noLabel	Marqués de Comillas, previously part of the Selva Lacandona forest, began to be settled by the same Indian groups in the 1970s.	Then it was colonised in 1974-86 by settlers coming largely from other Mexican states, though the ejidos that were then formed absorbed the already-settled Tzeltal and other Chiapas Indian groups.
noLabel	One member of the Board can affirm a decision of an immigration judge without oral argument; traditional review by three-judge panels is restricted to limited categories for which "searching appellate review" is appropriate.	If the BIA affirms the decision of the immigration court, then the next level of review is a petition for review in the United States court of appeals for the circuit in which the immigration judge sits.
noLabel	The primary prevention strategy with the best evidence for effectiveness for intimate partner violence is school-based programming for adolescents to prevent violence within dating relationships .	Evidence is emerging for the effectiveness of several other primary prevention strategies – those that: combine microfinance with gender equality training; promote communication and relationship skills within communities; reduce access to, and the harmful use of alcohol; and change cultural gender norms .
noLabel	Co-decision powers are those the mayor shares with the council, notably the power to make the local authority's annual budget and its policy framework documents.	These are: Annual Library Plan; Best Value Performance Plan; Children's Services Plan; Community Care Plan; Community Strategy; Crime and Disorder Reduction Strategy; Early Years Development Plan; Education Development Plan; Local Development Framework; and the Youth Justice Plan.
noLabel	In her 2005 book Eurabia: The Euro-Arab Axis, Bat Ye'or claims that Eurabia is the result of the French-led European policy originally intended to increase European power against the United States by aligning its interests with those of the Arab countries.	She claims it as a primary cause of European hostility to Israel, referring to joint Euro-Arab foreign policies that she characterizes as anti-American and anti-Zionist.
noLabel	Leading members of the Senate Judiciary Committee of the 111th Congress have joined together to re-introduce the State Secrets Protection Act, , ("SSPA"), a bill that provides guidance to federal courts considering cases in which the government has asserted the State Secrets Privilege .	Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), Ranking Member Arlen Specter (R-Pa.), and Committee Member Russ Feingold (D-Wis.) joined with former Committee Chairman and Member Edward Kennedy (D-Ma.)
noLabel	Because Gudykunst and Kim (2003) see cognitive and emotional growth as a zero-sum process they believe that maintaining contact with one's ethnic group, institutions, and even media ("ethnic communication activities" p.&nbsp;368), will "discourage strangers' development of host communication competence" (p.&nbsp;372) and evolutionary transformation of their psyche toward greater "psychological health and functional fitness" (p.&nbsp;372, 376).	According to Gudykunst and Kim (2003) the way to being functionally fit is "to undergo a fundamental psychic transformation" and the way upward-forward is to "abandon our identification with the cultural patterns that have symbolized who we are and what we are" (p.&nbsp;377).
noLabel	Consoles use a large sized (albeit low-resolution) television as their visual output device: optimal for viewing at a greater distance by a larger audience.	As a result, many video games are designed for local multiplayer play, with all players viewing the same TV set, with the screen divided into several sections and each player using a different controller. 
noLabel	Oppenheimer, who was now head of the General Advisory Committee of the successor to the Manhattan Project, the Atomic Energy Commission, presided over a recommendation against the development of the weapon.	The reasons were in part because the success of the technology seemed limited at the time (and not worth the investment of resources to confirm whether this was so), and because Oppenheimer believed that the atomic forces of the United States would be more effective if they consisted of many large fission weapons (of which multiple bombs could be dropped on the same targets) rather than the large and unwieldy predictions of massive super bombs, for which there were a relatively limited amounts of targets of the size to warrant such a development. 
noLabel	Investigations are conducted to gather information on the need for future legislation, to test the effectiveness of laws already passed, and to inquire into the qualifications and performance of members and officials of the other branches.	Committees may hold hearings, and, if necessary, compel individuals to testify when investigating issues over which it has the power to legislate by issuing subpoenas .
noLabel	Routine activity theory, developed by Marcus Felson and Lawrence Cohen, draws upon control theories and explains crime in terms of crime opportunities that occur in everyday life .	A crime opportunity requires that elements converge in time and place including (1) a motivated offender (2) suitable target or victim (3) lack of a capable guardian .
noLabel	As I see it, this has everything to do with disenfranchising folks you don't want to vote, and very little to do with actually curtailing alleged voter fraud, which appears to be more myth than reality.	According to the Pew Center on the States, of the nearly 7m ballots cast in North Carolina for the two primary elections and the general election last year, only 121 cases of alleged fraud were reported to the attorney general.
noLabel	Fees range from under £1,000 per term to £7,000 and above per term for a day pupil, with wide variations depending on the age of the child, the staff/pupil ratio and so on – and up to £9,000+ per term for boarding .	Many parents must make substantial sacrifices to afford such fees, but there may be a large number of scholarships and bursaries available. 
noLabel	Nowadays, somewhat ironically, while rugby union no longer makes the professional-amateur distinction, the professional-amateur split still exists within rugby league with the British Amateur Rugby League Association (BARLA) strictly amateur, though it allows some ex-professionals to play provided they are no longer under contract.	The most recent club to get a ban for fielding a contracted professional was Brighouse Rangers who were expelled from the National Conference League during 2007-2008 season, and the player handed a sine die ban (though in part for gouging ), although the club itself has since been admitted to the Pennine League.
noLabel	Bodybuilding did not really exist prior to the late 19th century, when it was promoted by Eugen Sandow of Königsberg, Prussia (now Kaliningrad in Russia) who is now generally referred to as "The Father of Modern Bodybuilding".	He is credited as being a pioneer of the sport because he allowed an audience to enjoy viewing his physique in "muscle display performances".
noLabel	The indictment was of major legal significance and was the first time that sexual assaults were investigated for the purpose of prosecution under the rubric of torture and enslavement as a crime against humanity .	The indictment was confirmed by a 2001 verdict by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia that rape and sexual enslavement are crimes against humanity.
noLabel	Since 2001 there has been a clear split, with the Islamic bloc and much of the developing world supporting the resolutions, and mostly Western democracies opposing.	Support has been waning in recent years, due to increased opposition from the West, along with lobbying by religious, free-speech, and human rights advocacy groups.
noLabel	There are several outdoor velodromes for track cycle racing in the UK with Herne Hill in London being the only venue from the 1948 Olympics still in operation.	There are also 2 indoor velodromes including one in Newport and a 3,500 seater velodrome in Manchester that also serves as the headquarters of British Cycling. 
noLabel	A refugee is a person who is outside their country of origin or habitual residence because they have suffered persecution on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or because they are a member of a persecuted 'social group'.	Such a person may be referred to as an 'asylum seeker' until recognized by the state where she makes her claim .
noLabel	Another problem is that the environmental issues in Ethiopia have no (or a very weak) lobby and the current restrictive socio-political context for public engagement has detrimental effects on environmental education, awareness, advocacy and the building of an engaged and empowered civil society – assets which are necessary to conserve and use Ethiopia’s forests in a sustainable way.	The recent "School Children Talent Competition Award on Biodiversity Conservation", organized by the Ethiopian Coffee Forest Forum is an excellent example of what is needed .
noLabel	After the end of the legal international slave trade by the European nations and the United States in the early 19th century, the illegal importation of slaves has continued, albeit at much reduced levels.	Although not as common as in Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, some women are undoubtedly smuggled into the United States and Canada . 
noLabel	Another example was Scilab prior to version 5, which called itself "the open source platform for numerical computation" but had a license that forbade commercial redistribution of modified versions.	Because OSI does not have a registered trademark for the term "open source", its legal ability to prevent such usage of the term is limited, but Tiemann advocates using public opinion from OSI, customers, and community members to pressure such organizations to change their license or to use a different term.
noLabel	On December 19th, 2008, a ceasefire between Israel and Gaza, under the control of Hamas, ended without renewal, and Hamas' Al-Qassam Brigade, amongst other militant groups, increased rocket attacks targeted at Israel.	On December 27th, 2008, Israel launched an air bombing campaign that allegedly targeted militant bases of operations, which killed hundreds of Gazan civilians as well.
noLabel	Imperial powers would have more choice (more competitive market) in countries from which they could acquire raw materials than those countries would have in buying final goods, particularly as imperial countries had the bulk of the world's financial resources and chose to behave oligopolistically.	This pattern of exploitation, which may or may not lead to the benefit of imperial nations, focuses on the importance of political power in the international system and its weight in policy choices. 
noLabel	Once the workers' committee and management have agreed on a contract, it is then put to a vote of all workers at the workplace.	If approved, the contract is usually in force for a fixed term of years, and when that term is up, it is then renegotiated between employees and management.
noLabel	In particular, although many countries have made significant efforts to strengthen their national systems (for instance by improving how they manage their public funds), in many cases donors are still reluctant to use them.	The predictability of aid flows also remains low (with just over a third of aid disbursed on schedule), thereby making it hard—or impossible—for governments to plan ahead.
noLabel	In part in response to these criticisms, a second wave of corruption metrics has been created by Global Integrity, the , and many lesser known local groups, starting with the Global Integrity Index, first published in 2004.	These second wave projects aim not to create awareness, but to create policy change via targeting resources more effectively and creating checklists toward incremental reform.
noLabel	Gary Becker, for example, acknowledged that many people operate under a high moral and ethical constraint, but considered that criminals rationally see that the benefits of their crime outweigh the cost such as the probability of apprehension, conviction, punishment, as well as their current set of opportunities.	From the public policy perspective, since the cost of increasing the fine is marginal to that of the cost of increasing surveillance, one can conclude that the best policy is to maximize the fine and minimize surveillance. 
noLabel	Each appropriations bill must be passed by both houses of Congress and signed by the president prior to the start of the federal fiscal year, October 1.	If that target is not met, as has been common in recent years, the committee drafts a continuing resolution, which is then approved by Congress and signed by the President to keep the federal government operating until the individual bills are approved.
noLabel	The Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats are predominantly pro-abortion-rights parties, though with significant minorities in each either holding extremely restrictive definitions of the right to choose, or subscribing to an anti-abortion analysis.	The Conservative Party is more evenly split between both camps and its leader, David Cameron, supports abortion on demand in the early stages of pregnancy .
noLabel	Performance-enhancing drugs include steroids (the male hormone testosterone), Human-growth hormone (HGH), recombinant erythropoietin (r-EPO), an artificial hormone and other drugs taken to build muscle-bulk during training, and stimulants or blood-doping taken to improve performance in competition.	Authorities tend to deal with this problem in different ways, for example, for the Tour de France cycling competition all sportsmen were deemed suspicious and ranked on a list from 1 to 10 (1), others impose random tests on athletes.
noLabel	On 5 March 2010, amid new fears of bankruptcy, the Greek parliament passed the "Economy Protection Bill", which was expected to save another €4.8&nbsp;billion .	The measures include (in addition to the above): 30% cuts in Christmas, Easter and leave of absence bonuses, a further 12% cut in public bonuses, a 7% cut in the salaries of public and private employees, a rise of VAT from 4.5% to 5%, from 9% to 10% and from 19% to 21%, a rise of tax on petrol to 15%, a rise in the (already existing) taxes on imported cars of up to 10%–30%, among others. 
noLabel	The Non-Aligned Movement has welcomed the continuing cooperation of Iran with the IAEA and reaffirmed Iran's right to the peaceful uses of nuclear technology .	UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has welcomed the continued dialogue between Iran and the IAEA, and has called for a peaceful resolution to the issue . 
noLabel	Elsewhere, in construction and shelter, there are numerous opportunities for diversion and profit through substandard workmanship, kickbacks for contracts and favouritism in the provision of valuable shelter material .	Thus while humanitarian aid agencies are usually most concerned about aid being diverted by including too many, recipients themselves are most concerned about exclusion .
noLabel	One response is that, even accepting the basic assumption that there is no best of all possible worlds, a value system which sees all worlds except the best possible one as equally valuable is questionable.	But the argument only assumes that all worlds are equally permissible for God to create, not that they are equally valuable. 
noLabel	Think of it - four out of every five people surveyed chose cycling as the sport with the greatest drug problem.	This is a stunning indictment of failure on the part of officials, organisers and riders.What has been the traditional response of cycling when reports of rampant drug use surface?
noLabel	Interactive movies as a computer and video game genre was the result of the multimedia expansion of computers and video game consoles in the mid 1990s, primarily because of the increased capacity offered by the laserdisc format.	Interactive movies started out on arcade machines in 1983, but quickly expanded to computers and video game consoles such as the Sega CD, the Phillips CD-i and the Panasonic 3DO.
noLabel	By the early 19th century, agricultural techniques, implements, seed stocks and cultivar had so improved that yield per land unit was many times that seen in the Middle Ages.	Although there is a vast and interesting history of crop cultivation before the dawn of the 20th century, there is little question that the work of Charles Darwin and Gregor Mendel created the scientific foundation for plant breeding that led to its explosive impact over the past 150 years . 
noLabel	In addition to national security classifications there are two additional security classifications, In Confidence and Sensitive, which are used to protect information of a policy and privacy nature.	There are also a number of information markings used within ministries and departments of the government, to indicate, for example, that information should not be released outside the originating ministry. 
noLabel	At least one of these submarines is always on patrol as a continuous at-sea deterrent, armed with up to 16 Trident missiles and around 48 nuclear warheads, although each submarine can carry up to 192 nuclear warheads with 12 warheads per missile.	This is to be reduced to 8 missiles per boat, with a total of 40 warheads per boat, as a result of the 2010 Strategic Defence Review 
noLabel	In 2009 the RSPB warned that "numbers of several breeding birds of high conservation concern are reduced close to wind turbines," probably because "birds may use areas close to the turbines less often than would be expected, potentially reducing the carrying capacity of an area.	" The National Audubon Society in the U.S. takes a similar position, broadly supporting wind power to help mitigate global warming, while cautioning against siting wind farms in areas especially important to birds and other affected wildlife .
noLabel	In the U.S. presidential election of 2004, some voters got phone calls with false information intended to keep them from voting&mdash;saying that their voting place had been changed or that voting would take place on Wednesday as well as on Tuesday.	Voters who believed this misinformation would go to the wrong polling place, or worse, not attempt to vote until after the election had ended . 
noLabel	As of December 2011, there are now approximately 5,600 public charter schools enrolling what is estimated to be more than two million students nationwide.	The numbers equate to a 13 percent growth in students in just one year, while more than 400,000 students remain on wait lists to attend the public school of their choice.
noLabel	The Foundation for Educational Choice is an Indianapolis-based non-profit organization dedicated to the issue of school choice and committed to assisting education reform efforts.	The Foundation was founded in 1996 by Nobel laureate Milton Friedman and his wife, economist Rose Director Friedman, and was then known as the Milton & Rose D. Friedman Foundation . 
noLabel	They believed that the traditional agrarian roots of the United States, which dated back to the nation's founding in the 18th century, were important to its nature.	Their manifesto was a critique of the rapid industrialization and urbanization during the first few decades of the 20th century in the southern United States.
noLabel	In the private sector, corruption increases the cost of business through the price of illicit payments themselves, the management cost of negotiating with officials, and the risk of breached agreements or detection.	Although some claim corruption reduces costs by cutting bureaucracy, the availability of bribes can also induce officials to contrive new rules and delays.
noLabel	The RFU took strong action against the clubs involved in the formation of the NRFU, all of whom were deemed to have forfeited their amateur status and therefore to have left the RFU.	A similar interpretation was applied to all players who played either for or against such clubs, whether or not they themselves received any compensation.
noLabel	There is also a 'knowledge requirement', in that the employer has a defence if it shows it did not know, and could not reasonably be expected to know, that the person had the disability.	Section 15 will apply, for example, where a disabled person is dismissed due to a long absence from work which resulted from their disability - the issue will be whether the employer can show the 'objective justification' defence applies (assuming the 'knowledge requirement' is met). 
noLabel	The difficulty of these tests and the risk of damage to the fetus, potentially resulting in miscarriage or congenital abnormalities (especially when done early during the pregnancy), make them quite rare during the first trimester.	In the United States, CVS and amniocentesis are most commonly performed after the 11th and the 15th week of pregnancy, respectively, and even then procedures are normally only recommended for mothers whose age or family background places them at the elevated risk for genetic disorders (such as Down's syndrome). 
noLabel	Lawsuits against the tobacco industry are primarily restricted to the United States due to differences in legal systems in other countries.	Many businesses class ongoing lawsuits as a cost of doing business in the US and feel their revenue will be only marginally affected by the activities .
noLabel	However, Strategic Affairs Minister Moshe Ya'alon later said that reports from army sources that flotilla participants were planning lethal violence were accurate .	Similarly, Israel's Prime Minister's Office replied that the materials issued by the IDF spokesman are based on reliable intelligence assessments . 
noLabel	It is done either through direct communication with members or employees of the legislative body, or with a government official who participates in formulating legislation .	During the direct lobbying process, the lobbyist introduces statistics that will inform the legislator of any recent information that might otherwise be missed, makes political threats or promises, and supply favors .
noLabel	This is illustrated by this map (see on the right) of Chiapas' Lacandon region, with Montes Azules Biosphere Reserve (green area) at the center.	The green circles represent Prodesis projects, the blue circles represent areas with conflicts over land, and the red markings represent areas with para-military presence. 
noLabel	One variation is packaging which obscures the true color of the foods contained within, such as red mesh bags containing yellow oranges or grapefruit, which then appear to be a ripe orange or red.	Regularly stirring hamburger on sale at a deli can also make the meat on the surface stay red, implying that it's fresh, while it would quickly oxidize and brown, betraying it's true age, if left unstirred.
noLabel	In April 2003, three months after White began representing the firm, $8.4 million for Trident was earmarked into an emergency spending bill for the Iraq war .	In addition, Trident had been a beneficiary of Lewis-backed funds to support small-business contracts with the Defense Department: the company has received tens of millions in grants from the Small Business Innovation Research Program since 2002, including five in 2005 and at least one in 2006, for $9.62-million . 
noLabel	Another primary concern with documenting alternative cultural norms revolves around the fact that no social actor uses language in ways that perfectly match normative characterizations .	A methodology for investigating how an individual uses language and other semiotic activity to create and use new models of conduct and how this varies from the cultural norm should be incorporated into the study of language socialization .
noLabel	To those who embrace the idea of consumerism, these products are not seen as valuable in themselves, but rather as social signals that allow them to identify like-minded people through consumption and display of similar products.	Few would yet go so far, though, as to admit that their relationships with a product or brand name could be substitutes for healthy human relationships that sometimes lack in a dysfunctional modern society. 
noLabel	On September 24, Johnson beat Lewis in the 100m final at the Olympics, lowering his own world record to 9.79 seconds.	Johnson would later remark that he would have been even faster had he not raised his hand in the air just before he finished the race .
noLabel	Some people may also attend church affiliated colleges in pursuit of a non-religious degree, and typically do it just to deepen their understanding of the specific religion that the school is associated with.	The largest non-public school system in the United States is the Catholic school system, with 5,744 elementary schools and 1,206 secondary schools .
noLabel	HCPs require clearly defined goals and objectives, efficient monitoring programs, as well as successful communication and collaboration with stakeholders and land owners in the area.	Reserve design is also important and requires a high level of planning and management in order to achieve the goals of the HCP.
noLabel	The New York Times described the leak as "a six-year archive of classified military documents [that] offers an unvarnished and grim picture of the Afghan war".	The Guardian called the material "one of the biggest leaks in U.S. military history&nbsp;.. a devastating portrait of the failing war in Afghanistan, revealing how coalition forces have killed hundreds of civilians in unreported incidents, Taliban attacks have soared and NATO commanders fear neighbouring Pakistan and Iran are fuelling the insurgency" .
noLabel	Utah and Boise State both finished in the top 15 of the BCS standings (in fact, both were in the top 10), and were thus eligible for BCS at-large spots.	It was generally understood, however, that only one team would get a berth, as it would be hard to justify allowing a second mid-major conference team into a BCS bowl over a BCS conference runner-up.
noLabel	The Economist (UK) denounced the report as "deeply flawed" and detrimental to the Israeli-Palestinian peace process, arguing that it was tainted by anti-Israel prejudice in the UNHRC.	In particular, The Economist chastised the mission for saying there was little or no evidence showing Hamas endangered civilians by basing themselves around schools, mosques and hospitals, as the charge was supported by many reports in the public domain . 
noLabel	Strategic nomination is the manipulation of an election through its candidate set (compare this to tactical voting, where the manipulation comes from the voters).	Strategic nomination is not to be confused with campaign strategy, the methods candidates employ in political campaigns to win an election after nomination.
noLabel	The final results of the hand count, as of December 23, had Christine Gregoire ahead by 130 votes, which was later revised to 129 when it was discovered that Thurston County had added a vote after certification had been completed .	Since the recount results were in favor of the party requesting the recount, the Democrats were reimbursed the recount costs they had advanced to the state. 
noLabel	On December 15, 2005, Bush announced that he accepted McCain's terms and will "make it clear to the world that this government does not torture and that we adhere to the international convention of torture, whether it be here at home or abroad.	" Bush made clear his interpretation of this legislation on December 30, 2005, in a signing statement, reserving what he interpreted to be his Presidential constitutional authority in order to avoid further terrorist attacks . 
noLabel	These American emperors were deposed due to complex issues, including pressure from the highly republican United States, which had declared it independent of the British monarch in 1776.	The British, worried about U.S. colonial expansion, invasion following the American Civil War, and the fact that the U.S. had aided the Mexican republican rebels in overthrowing Maximilian I, pushed for the union of the Canadian provinces into a country in 1867.
noLabel	Darnton examines the underbelly of the French book industry in the 18th century, examining the world of book smuggling and the lives of those writers (the "Grub Street Hacks") who never met the success of their philosophe cousins.	In short, rather than concerning himself with Enlightenment canon, Darnton studies "what Frenchmen wanted to read", and who wrote, published and distributed it .
noLabel	Women who smoke have about a 50% higher chance of giving birth to a child with behavioral disorders, such as ADD, but a recent study in a book called "ADD a different perspective" overturns this, saying that ADD is a genetic trait.	Proof of this comes from a study showing that the people with Attention Deficit Disorder had higher levels of certain hormones as Thom Hartman explains the theory of Hunter vs. farmer theory  .
noLabel	Under the mandate of the UN charter, the and the multilateral UN human rights treaties, the United Nations (UN) as an intergovernmental body seeks to apply international jurisdiction for universal human-rights legislation .	Within the UN machinery, human-rights issues are primarily the concern of the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations Human Rights Council, and there are numerous committees within the UN with responsibilities for safeguarding different human-rights treaties.
noLabel	Fusion reactions do not create fission products, and thus contribute far less to the creation of nuclear fallout than fission reactions.	However, because all thermonuclear weapons contain at least one fission stage, and many high-yield thermonuclear devices have a final fission stage from depleted uranium, thermonuclear weapons can generate at least as much nuclear fallout as fission-only weapons, if not substantially more.
noLabel	Not all migrants seeking shelter in another country fall under the definition of "refugee" according to article 1A of the Geneva Convention.	In 1951, when the text of the Convention was discussed, the parties of the treaty had the idea that slavery was a thing from the past: therefore escaped and fleeing slaves are a group not mentioned in the definition, as well as a category that later emerged: the climate refugee (:Environmental migrant") (see below). 
noLabel	Dewey not only re-imagined the way that the learning process should take place, but also the role that the teacher should play within that process.	According to Dewey, the teacher should not be one to stand at the front of the room doling out bits of information to be absorbed by passive students.
noLabel	The recent interest in converting biomass to electricity comes not only from its potential as a low-cost, indigenous supply of power, but for its potential environmental and developmental benefits.	For example, biomass may be a globally important mitigation option to reduce the rate of CO2 buildup by sequestering carbon and by displacing fossil fuels.
noLabel	Wada believes that smokeless tobacco is being used in various sports to enhance performance, following a year-long study by its Lausanne lab whichconcluded that nicotine increased"vigilance and cognitive function", and reduced stress and bodyweight.	Maddeningly, though, there is more than one way to get nicotine into your body, and sport is still sprinkled with those who use the old-fashioned method: a packet of fags.
noLabel	Although vouchers may be used in private and religious schools, taxpayers are not able to vote on budgetary issues, elect members of the board or even attend board meetings.	Kevin Welner points out that vouchers funded through a convoluted tax credit system—a policy he calls "Neovouchers"-- present additional accountability concerns.
noLabel	Criminals experience poverty; and witness affluence they are deprived of and which is virtually impossible for them to attain through conventional means .	The concept of neighbourhood is central to this theory, as it defines the social learning, locus of control, cultural influences and access to social opportunity experienced by criminals and the groups they form .
noLabel	The United States currently pays around $20 billion per year to farmers in direct subsidies as "farm income stabilization" via U.S. farm bills.	These bills pre-date the economic turmoil of the Great Depression with the 1922 Grain Futures Act, the 1929 Agricultural Marketing Act and the 1933 Agricultural Adjustment Act creating a tradition of government support. 
noLabel	In The White Man's Burden (The title referring to the famous The White Man's Burden by Rudyard Kipling), Easterly elaborates on his views about the meaning of foreign aid.	Released in the wake of Live8, the book is critical of people like Bob Geldoff and Bono (“The white band's burden”) and especially of fellow economist Jeffrey Sachs and his bestselling book The End of Poverty .
noLabel	Whether or not compromising will be an effective tactic depends on the precise candidates and voting patterns present in each election.	For example, if there are two very popular centrist candidates standing in the election, so that the outcome of the first round is inevitable, then compromise will be unnecessary.
noLabel	On November 18, 2008, the BCS announced that ESPN had won the television rights to the BCS National Championship Game (as well as the other four BCS bowls) for 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014.	The contract with ESPN is notable as it makes the BCS National Championship Game the most prominent annual sporting event not to be shown over broadcast television . 
noLabel	Altogether this is expected to bring down Greece's unsustainable debt level from 163% in 2011, to a more sustainable level of 117% of GDP in 2020, somewhat lower than the originally expected 120.5% .	The deal is expected to be finalized before 20 March, when Greece needs to repay bonds worth €14.5bn or default on its debts . 
noLabel	The Secretariat works with a wide range of international organizations and stakeholders to facilitate cooperation and coordination on global forest issues.	It serves as the focal point on all forest-related issues for the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) and also serves as the secretariat for the Collaborative Partnership on Forests. 
noLabel	In 1997, the journal Feminist Economics was awarded the Council of Editors and Learned Journals (CELJ) Award as Best New Journal.	The 2005 ISI Social Science Citation Index ranked the journal Feminist Economics 20th out of 175 among economics journals and 2nd out of 27 among Women's Studies journals.
noLabel	Some proponents of private gun ownership argue that an armed citizens' militia can help deter crime and tyranny, as police are primarily a reactive force whose main loyalty is to the government which pays their wages.	The Militia Information Service (MIS) contends that gun ownership is a civic duty in the context of membership in the militia,
noLabel	An omission of the rule still would have not have been enough for Auburn to secure a berth, as Wisconsin would have likely been the final at-large bid.	The final BCS poll had seven teams from the SEC and the Big Ten ranked in the top twelve but by the rule only two from each conference were eligible to play in BCS bowl games, offering the opportunity to argue that both conferences are over-ranked, that the Big Ten schedule does not produce a true conference champion, or that the limit of 2 teams from any one conference is inappropriate.
noLabel	In 2005, soybean prices fell by more than 25 percent and some areas of Mato Grosso showed a decrease in large deforestation events, although the central agricultural zone continued to clear forests.	But, deforestation rates could return to the high levels seen in 2003 as soybean and other crop prices begin to rebound in international markets.
noLabel	"Earth's natural wealth: an audit" by New Scientist magazine states that many of the minerals that we use for a variety of products are in danger of running out in the near future.	A handful of geologists around the world have calculated the costs of new technologies in terms of the materials they use and the implications of their spreading to the developing world.
noLabel	Afterwards, when an individual competes for a specific post, he or she might make specific choices which cause future inequalities – and these inequalities are deemed acceptable because of the previous presumption of fairness .	And this system helps undergird the legitimacy of a society's divvying up of roles as a result in the sense that it makes certain achieved inequalities "morally acceptable," according to persons who advocate this approach .
noLabel	Muslim charity does not only come from predominantly Muslim nations; American Muslim Charities also contribute all over the Islamic world, but their giving declined by 40% after the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks.	The decline in giving came as a result of the government advising donors to heavily scrutinize their charities as part of the U.S.’s suggested “anti-terrorist financing procedures.” .
noLabel	On threats by various governments toward Assange, legal expert Ben Saul argues that founder Julian Assange is the target of a global smear campaign to demonise him as a criminal or as a terrorist, without any legal basis .	The U.S. Center for Constitutional Rights has issued a statement highlighting its alarm at the "multiple examples of legal overreach and irregularities" in his arrest .
noLabel	In 1978 Willis Carto founded the Institute for Historical Review (IHR) as an organization dedicated to publicly challenging the commonly accepted history of the Holocaust .	The IHR sought from the beginning to attempt to establish itself within the broad tradition of historical revisionism, by soliciting token supporters who were not from a neo-Nazi background such as James J. Martin and Samuel Edward Konkin III, and by promoting the writings of French socialist Paul Rassinier and American anti-war historian Harry Elmer Barnes to attempt to show that Holocaust denial had a broader base of support besides just neo-Nazis.
noLabel	In a 2009 report about "Rural Wind Farms", a Standing Committee of the Parliament of New South Wales, Australia, recommended a minimum setback of two kilometres between wind turbines and neighbouring houses (which can be waived by the affected neighbour) as a precautionary approach .	In July 2010, Australia's National Health and Medical Research Council reported that "there is no published scientific evidence to support adverse effects of wind turbines on health" . 
noLabel	The IPC investigated the claims and found that the required mental tests, which should show that the competitors have an IQ of no more than 70, were not conducted by the Spanish Paralympic Committee (CPE).	Ribagorda alleged that some Spanish participants in the table tennis, track and field, and swimming events were also not disabled, meaning that five medals had been won fraudulently . 
noLabel	The Seven Years' War between Great Britain and France resulted in the conquest of New France by the British in 1759 at the Battle of the Plains of Abraham, an event that reverberates profoundly even today in the national consciousness of Quebecers.	Although there were deliberate attempts made by the British to assimilate the French speaking population to English language and culture, most notably the 1840 Act of Union that followed the seminal report of Lord Durham, British colonial policy for Canada on the whole was one which acknowledged and permitted the continued existence of French language and culture.
noLabel	Although the discrepancy model has dominated the school system for many years, there has been substantial criticism of this approach among researchers .	Recent research has provided little evidence that a discrepancy between formally measured IQ and achievement is a clear indicator of LD .
noLabel	In November 2005, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston economists Christopher Foote and Christopher Goetz released a working paper, "", in which they argued that Donohue and Levitt's study did not estimate the regressions that Donohue and Levitt had claimed that they examined.	In particular, Foote and Goetz said that, despite their claims that they had done so, the 2001 Donohue and Levitt study failed to control for influences that varied within a state from year to year (such as the effect of crack-cocaine).
noLabel	Some parents may place children in after school programs so that their children are provided with opportunities for enrichment or academic improvement.	Other parents are predominantly concerned with ensuring that their children are in an affordable, safe, supervised environment after school  .
noLabel	This argument had always been questioned on the grounds that every market in the world would have to stop selling at any price for an importer to find itself imperiled, unless a blockade was used.	It was said that any nation (especially England) unable to defeat a blockade couldn't hope to win a 19th century war anyway.
noLabel	Like his predecessor, Pope John Paul&nbsp;II dispensed with the traditional Papal coronation and instead received ecclesiastical investiture with the simplified Papal inauguration on 22 October 1978.	During his inauguration, when the cardinals were to kneel before him to take their vows and kiss his ring, he stood up as the Polish prelate Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński knelt down, stopped him from kissing the ring, and simply hugged him .
noLabel	According to Eugene V. Debs, "seasoned old unionists" recognized in 1905 that working people could not win with the labor movement they had.	Among the critiques of the AFL were organized scabbery of one union on another, jurisdictional squabbling, an autocratic leadership, and a relationship between union leaders and millionaires in the National Civic Federation that was altogether too cozy.
noLabel	Caseworkers would be expected to perform a far wider range of duties including the presentation of case at appeal hearings and the casework surrounding a person’s removal.	The new casework teams would be the machine that would track and manage failed asylum seekers towards removal as a “ready to go product” in much the manner championed by the Home Affairs Committee .
noLabel	The concept of the Crown as a part of parliament is related to the idea of the fusion of powers, meaning that the executive branch and legislative branch of government are fused together.	This is a key concept of the Westminster system of government, developed in England and used across the Commonwealth and beyond.
noLabel	Later, in the middle to late 1990s, isometric, sprite-based RPGs became commonplace, with video game publishers Interplay Entertainment and Blizzard North playing a lead role with such titles as Fallout, the Baldur's Gate and Icewind Dale series, and Diablo.	This era also saw a move toward 3D game engines with such games as Might and Magic VI: The Mandate of Heaven and The Elder Scrolls I: Arena.
noLabel	On 29 April, a group, organized by Esau, met with Rudolf Mentzel at the REM to discuss the potential of a sustained nuclear chain reaction.	The group included the physicists Walther Bothe, Robert Döpel, Hans Geiger, Wolfgang Gentner (probably sent by Walther Bothe), Wilhelm Hanle, Gerhard Hoffmann, and Georg Joos; Peter Debye was invited, but he did not attend.
noLabel	Just a few years later, in 1971, the first organization to teach a symptothermal method (one that used both mucus and temperature observations) was started.	Now called Couple to Couple League International, this organization was founded by John and Sheila Kippley, lay Catholics, along with Dr. Konald Prem .
noLabel	Then districts either elect to manage those program internally or outsource management to a Community-based organization (CBO), Non-governmental organization (NGO) or other local non-profit provider .	is a district run and managed after-school program offered to students in the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) ., California's largest non-profit provider, contracts with approximately 20 Southern California school district partners to run and manage academically oriented after-school programs at approximately 200 school sites located across Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside and San Bernardino Counties. 
noLabel	National Security Advisor James L. Jones and Pakistan's ambassador to the United States, Husain Haqqani, both condemned Wikileaks for an "irresponsible" disclosure .	White House National Security Advisor James Jones issued a statement to reporters shortly before the documents were posted online, saying the leaks were “irresponsible” but would not impact U.S. strategy in Afghanistan and Pakistan.
noLabel	Dawkins is shown around the school by head teacher Adrian Hawkes and remarks on how the teaching material appears to mention God or Jesus on almost every page; such as a reference to Noah's Ark in a science textbook.	Hawkes responds by saying that the stories could have a lot to do with science if you believe in them, and that the science he was taught at school is laughable today.
noLabel	Girls on the Run is a North American non-profit program that works to encourage pre-teen girls to develop self-respect and healthy lifestyles through participation in running programs.	The organization’s curricula seek to address all aspects of the girls’ development to enhance their physical, emotional, mental, social, and spiritual well-being. 
noLabel	As of January 31, 2012 the total debt was $15.4 trillion, with debt held by the public of $10.6 trillion and intragovernmental debt of $4.8 trillion .	Debt held by the public as a percentage of GDP rose from 34.7% in 2000 to 40.3% in 2008 and 62.1% in 2010 .
noLabel	Relaxed zoning rules and special parking privileges for churches, the tax-free status of church property, the fact that Christmas is a federal holiday, etc., have also been questioned, but have been considered examples of the governmental prerogative in deciding practical and beneficial arrangements for the society.	The national motto "In God We Trust" has been challenged as a violation, but the Supreme Court has ruled that ceremonial deism is not religious in nature. 
noLabel	Tuition is charged at almost all American universities, except 1) the five federally sponsored service academies, in which students attend free and with a stipend in exchange for a service commitment in the U.S. armed forces after graduation; and 2) a few institutions where offering tuition-free education is part of their mission, such as Cooper Union, Berea College, Olin College and Webb Institute.	Public universities often have much lower tuition than private universities because funds are provided by state governments and residents of the state that supports the university typically pay lower tuition than non-residents.
noLabel	Although they do not fit the definition of refugees set out in the UN Convention, people displaced by the effects of climate change have often been termed "climate refugees" or "climate change refugees" .	The term 'environmental refugee' is also commonly used and an estimate 25 million people can currently be classified as such .
noLabel	Provision of benefits to members: Early trade unions, like Friendly Societies, often provided a range of benefits to insure members against unemployment, ill health, old age and funeral expenses.	In many developed countries, these functions have been assumed by the state; however, the provision of professional training, legal advice and representation for members is still an important benefit of trade union membership. 
noLabel	It has been argued that "some of the greatest moments in sports would never have occurred" were the 12-round limit imposed in earlier matches .	Nonetheless, entirely different strategies might have been used were the fights scheduled for only 12 rather than 15 rounds, so it is possible that some or all matches could have ended the same way regardless of whether the scheduled distance were 12 or 15 rounds. 
noLabel	Inner city neighborhoods of larger cities tend to be densely populated and without significant room for houses devoted to just a single family.	By contrast, the outer districts of larger cities are usually transitional areas with equal shares of smaller apartment buildings and single-detached homes. 
noLabel	Dissatisfaction with the governance of the sport led, in 1895, to a number of prominent clubs establishing what would become rugby league.	The estranged clubs, based in mainly working class industrial regions of northern England, had wished to be allowed to compensate their players for missing work to play matches but they had been opposed by those clubs that were predominantly middle class and often based in the south of the country.
noLabel	prime minister) is appointed with the consent (in practice often decisive) of the legislature, and other figures are appointed on the head of government's advice.	Some countries have alternative provisions: under Article 4 of the Instrument of Government, 1974, the constitution of Sweden grants to the parliamentary speaker the role of formally appointing the prime minister. 
noLabel	NEA has come under fire for taking advantage of laws in some states that compel, under certain conditions, membership in the association.	In a case brought before the U.S. Supreme Court (Davenport v. Washington Education Association) on behalf of 4,000 Washington State teachers who are not NEA members but are nonetheless forced to pay NEA dues, the Court partially addressed the issue of collection and use of dues by unions such as the NEA . 
noLabel	Put into practice, color-blind operations use no racial data or profiling and make no classifications, categorizations, or distinctions based upon race.	An example of this would be a college processing admissions without regard to or knowledge of the racial characteristics of applicants . 
noLabel	Jewish Voice for Peace has spoken against the abuse of the antisemitic label, for example in an opinion piece, they wrote "For decades, some leaders of the Jewish community have made the preposterous claim that there is complete unity of belief and interest between all Jews and the Israeli government, no matter what its policies.	They must believe their own propaganda, because they see no difference between criticism of the Israeli government and anti-Semitism, and they do everything they can to silence critical voices.
noLabel	Attendances at club rugby in England have risen strongly since the sport went professional and by contrast, the professional era has had a traumatic effect on the traditional structure of club rugby in Wales, Scotland and Ireland.	Following the regional model of Wales and Ireland, Scotland also originally established four regional teams for North, East, South and West Scotland.
noLabel	Egypt's argument is that it cannot open Rafah crossing unless the Palestinian Authority headed by Mahmoud Abbas controls the crossing and international monitors are present.	Egypt Foreign Minister Ahmed Aboul Gheit said Hamas wants the border opened because it would represent Egyptian recognition of the group's control of Gaza.
noLabel	Other prominent examples of Okinawan culture include the sanshin—a three-stringed Okinawan instrument, closely related to the Chinese sanxian, and ancestor of the Japanese shamisen, somewhat similar to a banjo.	Its body is often bound with snakeskin (from pythons, imported from elsewhere in Asia, rather than from Okinawa's venomous Trimeresurus flavoviridis, which are too small for this purpose).
noLabel	In the weeks up to March 6 both candidates had experiences ballot problems, failing to appear on the Virginia primary ballot, leaving that race to Romney and Paul.	With only two candidates on the ballot Paul got 40% of the votes and carried one of Virginias eleven congressional districts. 
noLabel	Once again the PTC expired in December 2001 and was not enacted again until March 2002 where it was then extended for another two years.	At the end of 2003 the PTC expired for a third time until a one year extension was granted in October 2004.
noLabel	" In the same year, the group praised Chabot for offering legislation "prohibiting the Forest Service from spending taxpayer dollars to build new logging roads for private interests in the Tongass National Forest.	The nonpartisan League of Conservation Voters gave Chabot a grade of 10% for the 109th Congress, noting that he voted "anti-environment" on 11 out of 12 issues selected by that organization as crucial; his lifetime grade from the LCV is 23% . 
noLabel	This approach leads to an ethics of maximum tolerance for an individual's choices and of minimum tolerance for totalitarian and theocratic systems of ideas that could undermine the very foundations of a democratic society.	It is said that interculturalism is some kind of a multiculturalism but with arguments that are not available to enter this definition.
noLabel	The report used a common poverty line of $1.25 per person, per day, at purchasing parity power for consumption in 2005.	Using that metric and evaluating the period between 1981 and 2005, the poverty rate in China dropped from 84% to 16%; India from 60% to 42%; and Brazil from 17% to 8%.
noLabel	This has caused concern as the European Union, a potential trade partner, has refused to conduct free trade negotiations at a regional level for these political reasons .	International observers view it as a "talk shop", which implies that the organisation is "big on words but small on action" .
noLabel	The concept of representative democracy arose largely from ideas and institutions that developed during the European Middle Ages and the Age of Enlightenment and in the American and French Revolutions .	The right to vote has been expanded in many jurisdictions over time from relatively narrow groups (such as wealthy men of a particular ethnic group), with New Zealand the first nation to grant universal suffrage for all its citizens in 1893. 
noLabel	In the late 1970s and early 1980s, the revival of the nuclear arms race, triggered a new wave of protests about nuclear weapons.	Older organizations such as the Federation of Atomic Scientists revived, and newer organizations appeared, including the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign and Physicians for Social Responsibility .
noLabel	The Soviet program, under the suspicious watch of former NKVD chief Lavrenty Beria (a participant and victor in Stalin's Great Purge of the 1930s), would use the Report as a blueprint, seeking to duplicate as much as possible the American effort.	The "secret cities" used for the Soviet equivalents of Hanford and Oak Ridge literally vanished from the maps for decades to come. 
noLabel	Many trainees like to cycle between the two methods in order to prevent the body from adapting (maintaining a progressive overload), possibly emphasizing whichever method more suits their goals.	I.e, a bodybuilder will use sarcoplasmic hypertrophy most of the time, but may change to myofibrillar hypertrophy temporarily in order to move past a plateau.
noLabel	On 30 September 2005, the daily newspaper Jyllands-Posten ("The Jutland Post") published an article entitled "Muhammeds ansigt" ("The face of Muhammad").	The article consisted of 12 cartoons (of which only some depicted Muhammad) and an explanatory text, in which Flemming Rose, Jyllands-Posten&#039;s culture editor, commented: .
noLabel	In 1987, Bradley R. Smith, a former media director of the Institute for Historical Review, founded the Committee for Open Debate on the Holocaust (CODOH) .	In the United States, CODOH has repeatedly tried to place newspaper advertisements questioning whether the Holocaust happened, especially in college campus newspapers .
noLabel	In 1959, the WHO signed Agreement WHA 12–40 with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which somehave claimed prevents the WHO from independently researching the effects on human health of radiation caused by the use of nuclear power, for examples after nuclear disasters in Chernobyl and Fukushima .	The agreement states that the WHO recognises the IAEA as having responsibility for peaceful nuclear energy without prejudice to the roles of the WHO of promoting health.
noLabel	With high per capita income growth in many parts of India and China during the late 1990s and the 2000s, male/female ratios have began shifting towards "normal" levels .	However, for India and China, this appears to be due to a fall in adult female mortality rates, relative to male adults, rather than a change in the sex ratio among children and newborns. 
noLabel	Similarly, in games such as realMyst, the player merely interacts with the environment by touching things in the first-person and the term "shooter" is seen to be objectively inaccurate.	Despite this, non-violent first-person games have often been characterized oxymoronically as shooters because of all comparable genres, these games are most closely similar to the FPS and often employ engines designed for the FPS genre. 
noLabel	Few new genres have been created since the advent of the FPS and RTS, with the possible exception of the third-person shooter.	Games such as Grand Theft Auto III, Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell, Enter the Matrix, and Hitman all use a third-person camera perspective, but are otherwise very similar to their first-person counterparts. 
noLabel	Overall the households and demographics featuring the highest educational attainment in the United States are also among those with the highest household income and wealth.	Thus, while the population of the US is becoming increasingly educated on all levels, a direct link between income and educational attainment remains . 
noLabel	An advocate of government restrictions on campaign spending and contributions, McCain made campaign finance reform a central issue in his 2000 presidential bid.	With Democratic Sen. Russ Feingold of Wisconsin he pushed the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 which banned unlimited donations to national political parties (soft money) and curtailed issue-advocacy ads .
noLabel	In the United States, the CDC reported a levelling-off of smoking rates in recent years despite a large number of ever more comprehensive smoking bans and large tax increases.	It has also been suggested that a "backstop" of hardcore smokers has been reached: those unmotivated and increasingly defiant in the face of further legislation . 
noLabel	The WHO Assessment Instrument for Mental Health Systems (WHO-AIMS), the WHO Quality of Life Instrument (WHOQOL), and the Service Availability and Readiness Assessment (SARA) provide guidance for data collection .	Collaborative efforts between WHO and other agencies, such as through the Health Metrics Network, also aim to provide sufficient high-quality information to assist governmental decision making .
noLabel	The highest rate of teenage pregnancy in the world is in sub-Saharan Africa, where women tend to marry at an early age .	In Niger, for example, 87% of women surveyed were married and 53% had given birth to a child before the age of 18 . 
noLabel	There is a University Grants Commission (UGC) set up that provides financial assistance to universities for the establishment of Special Cells for SC/STs.	Their purpose is to help universities implement the reservation policy in the student admissions and staff recruitment processes at teaching and non teaching levels.
noLabel	The New South Wales version of the censorship law which is stricter than that of Queensland was considered by the High Court of Australia in 2005 .	The plaintiffs argued that the law was invalid because it infringed the implied constitutional freedom of political communication and secondly that it infringed Chapter III of the Constitution and the rule of law. 
noLabel	25) That on an objection being made by the seconds or umpire, the men shall retire to their corners, and there remain until the decision of the appointed authorities shall be obtained; that if pronounced “foul,” the battle shall be at an end, but if “fair,” “time” shall be called by the party appointed, and the man absent from the scratch in eight seconds after shall be deemed to have lost the fight.	The decision in all cases to be given promptly and irrevocably, for which purpose the umpires and the referee should be invariably close together. 
noLabel	The majority of the uranium for Little Boy was enriched in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, primarily by means of electromagnetic separation in calutrons and through gaseous diffusion plants, with a small amount contributed by the cyclotrons at Ernest O. Lawrence's Radiation Laboratory.	The core of Little Boy contained 64&nbsp;kg of uranium, of which 50&nbsp;kg was enriched to 88%, and the remaining 14&nbsp;kg at 50%, resulting in an average enrichment of 82.68%.
noLabel	Criticism of Christianity became increasingly frequent in the 17th and 18th centuries, especially in France and England, where there appears to have been a religious malaise, according to contemporary sources.	Some Protestant thinkers, such as Thomas Hobbes, espoused a materialist philosophy and skepticism toward supernatural occurrences, while the Jewish-Dutch philosopher Baruch Spinoza rejected divine providence in favour of a panentheistic naturalism.
noLabel	The information, resources, and infrastructures the health care sector has at its disposal are an important asset for research and prevention work.	Second, the magnitude of the problem and its potentially severe life-long consequences and high costs to individuals and wider society call for population-level interventions typical of the public health approach.
noLabel	On February 14, Italy's Reform Minister Roberto Calderoli had T-shirts made emblazoned with cartoons of the Prophet Mohammad in a move likely to embarrass Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi's government.	Calderoli, a member of the anti-immigrant Northern League party, told Ansa news agency on Tuesday that the West had to stand up against Islamic extremists and offered to hand out T-shirts to anyone who wanted them .
noLabel	Atomic Spies and Atom Spies are terms that refer to various people in the United States, Great Britain, and Canada who are thought to have illicitly given information about nuclear weapons production or design to the Soviet Union during World War II and the early Cold War.	Exactly what was given, and whether everyone on the list gave it, is still a matter of some scholarly dispute, and in some cases what were originally seen as strong testimonies or confessions were admitted as fabricated in later years.
noLabel	Polls and surveys generate different responses depending on the wording of the questions, mostly in regards the type of republic, and often appear contradictory.	In May 2008, a Morgan poll found 45% believe Australia should become a republic with an elected president, while 42% support Australia remaining a monarchy and 13% are undecided . 
noLabel	Over the course of the 20th century, farms have consolidated into larger, more capital-intensive operations and subsidy policy under Butz encouraged these large farms at the expense of small and medium-sized family farms .	The percentage of Americans who live on a farm diminished from nearly 25% during the Great Depression to about 2% now, and only 0.1% of the United States population works full-time on a farm.
noLabel	However, the Charter granted new powers to the courts to enforce remedies that are more creative and to exclude more evidence in trials.	These powers are greater than what was typical under the common law and under a system of government that, influenced by Canada's mother country the United Kingdom, was based upon Parliamentary supremacy.
noLabel	In addition, growth in telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, aircraft, heavy machinery and other industries along with declines in low end, low skill industries such as clothing, toys, and other simple manufacturing have resulted in U.S. jobs being more highly skilled and better paying.	There has been much debate within the United States on the decline in manufacturing jobs are related to American Unions and lower foreign wages . 
noLabel	Whether these statements vindicate some or all of the models presented above is up for interpretation, and official U.S. government releases about the technical details of nuclear weapons have been purposely equivocating in the past (see, e.g., Smyth Report).	Other information, such as the types of fuel used in some of the early weapons, has been declassified, though of course precise technical information has not been.
noLabel	The same social norms for the defense of the person and property that informed the law before 1955 remain the policy norms.	That more people are uncontrollable and may offend against those norms in social interactions cannot be explained by simply counting how many people practice the golden rule (see the general discussion in Braithwaite: 1989).
noLabel	In the same year, another prominent modern advocate for mandatory population control was Garrett Hardin, who proposed in his landmark 1968 essay The Tragedy of the Commons that society must relinquish the "freedom to breed" through "mutual coercion, mutually agreed upon."	Later on, in 1972, he reaffirmed his support in his new essay “Exploring New Ethics for Survival”, by stating that, “We are breeding ourselves into oblivion.” Many prominent personalities, such as Bertrand Russell, Margaret Sanger (1939), John D. Rockefeller, Frederick Osborn (1952), Isaac Asimov and Jacques Cousteau have also advocated for population control. 
noLabel	Several studies have examined human birth sex ratio data to determine if there is a natural relationship between the age of mother or father to the birth sex ratio.	For example, Ruder has studied 1.67 million births in 33 states in the United States to discern effect of parent's age and birth sex ratios .
noLabel	The testing for drugs, recreational or performance enhancing (another distinction that is blurring), has always been the most subtle and insidious way of enforcing that control.	And just last Monday, two American Oympians -- the sprinter Dennis Mitchell and the shot-put champion Randy Barnes -- were suspended for possible doping offenses.
noLabel	The group running the website said it was not threatening Parker and Stone, however, it also posted the addresses of Comedy Central's New York office and the California production studio where South Park is made .	Comedy Central self-censored the episode when it was broadcast by removing the word "Muhammad" and a speech about intimidation and fear from the South Park episode .
noLabel	Maze games: Pac-Man (1980) was the first game to achieve widespread popularity in mainstream culture and the first game character to be popular in his own right.	3D Monster Maze (1981) was the first 3D game for a home computer, while Dungeons of Daggorath (1982) added various weapons and monsters, sophisticated sound effects, and a "heartbeat" health monitor. 
noLabel	A March 1987 Asahi Shimbun poll indicated that this move was made in defiance of public opinion: only 15% approved the removal of the ceiling and 61% disapproved.	But a January 1988 poll conducted by the Office of the Prime Minister reported that 58% approved the defense budget of 1.004% of GNP for fiscal year 1987. 
noLabel	This eliminated fast fission by the fusion-stage neutrons, so that approximately 97% of the total energy resulted from fusion alone (as such, it was one of the "cleanest" nuclear bombs ever created, generating a very low amount of fallout relative to its yield).	There was a strong incentive for this modification since most of the fallout from a test of the bomb would have ended up on populated Soviet territory . 
noLabel	Donors should therefore consider improving the transparency and traceability of aid funds also as a way of increasing engagement and support towards aid inside their own country.	Moreover, a generalized adoption of IATI would ensure the publication of aid information in a timely way, the compatibility with developing countries' budgets and the reliability of future projections, which would have a strong and positive impact on the predictability of aid . 
noLabel	The British Government has proposed raising the age again to 18 in 2013 in England only, which it believes will tackle the problem of young people leaving school unskilled, with the DfES stating "we are letting young people down if we allow them to leave education and training without skills at the age of 16.	" Sixteen is the current school leaving age in England and Wales, with students generally required to complete their GCSE examinations at the end of year 11 before leaving. 
noLabel	Jon Huntsman, Jr., a moderate, had staked his candidacy on New Hampshire and invested heavily in at least a strong second place showing, but after 150 campaign events in the state he ended third after Paul.	Both he and Rick Perry dropped out of the race shortly before voting day in South Carolina and the two delegates allocated to Huntsman became unbound . 
noLabel	While the officer must obtain the approval of a Chief Immigration Officer or Inspector to refuse someone entry the way in which interviews are conducted and recorded are based on a lower level of proof than those in other areas of law enforcement.	The immigration rules for visitors say that the immigration officer must be “satisfied” that the person is a genuine visitor not intending to stay longer than the rules allow and is not intending to seek employment .
noLabel	According to a survey conducted by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in 2003, 76% of Tokyo residents would not change their view of a close neighbor whom they discovered to be a burakumin; 4.9% of respondents, on the other hand, would actively avoid a burakumin neighbor.	There is still a stigma attached to being a resident of certain areas traditionally associated with the burakumin and some lingering discrimination in matters such as marriage and employment. 
noLabel	This research has shown that acculturation is a "fatiguing experience requiring a constant stream of bodily energy", an "individual and familial endeavor", and involves "enduring loneliness caused by seemingly insurmountable language barriers".	However, the same individuals also report "finding relief and protection in relationships" and "feeling worse and then feeling better about oneself with increased competencies" during the acculturative process.
noLabel	If the Manichaeans had an accurate idea of the fertile portion of the menstrual cycle, such knowledge died with them .	Documented attempts to prevent pregnancy by practicing periodic abstinence do not appear again until the mid-19th century, when various calendar-based methods were developed "by a few secular thinkers.
noLabel	Article 8 provides a right to respect for one's "private and family life, his home and his correspondence", subject to certain restrictions that are "in accordance with law" and "necessary in a democratic society".	This article clearly provides a right to be free of unlawful searches, but the Court has given the protection for "private and family life" that this article provides a broad interpretation, taking for instance that prohibition of private consensual homosexual acts violates this article.
noLabel	The system of vocational education in the UK initially developed independently of the state, with bodies such as the RSA and City & Guilds setting examinations for technical subjects.	The Education Act 1944 made provision for a Tripartite System of grammar schools, secondary technical schools and secondary modern schools, but by 1975 only 0.5% of British senior pupils were in technical schools, compared to two-thirds of the equivalent German age group . 
noLabel	Senator, he has stood with the Armenian American community in calling for Turkey's acknowledgement of the Armenian Genocide, and supports its recognition.	In 2006, Obama criticized Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice for firing United States Ambassador to Armenia, John Evans, after he used the term "genocide" to describe Turkey's killing of hundreds of thousands of Armenians .
noLabel	Despite definitions and evidence that acculturation entails a two-way process of change, research and theory have primarily focused on the adjustments and adaptations made by minorities such as immigrants, refugees, and indigenous peoples in response to their contact with the dominant majority.	Contemporary research has primarily focused on different strategies of acculturation and how variations in acculturation affect how well individuals adapt to their society.
noLabel	According to the English Law, Sedition embraces all the practices whether by word or writing which are calculated to disturb the tranquillity of the State and lead an ignorant person to subvert the Government .	Mere criticism of the government does not amount to sedition, if it was not calculated to undermine the respect for the government in such a way so as to make people cease to obey it and so that only anarchy follows .
noLabel	Class action plaintiffs and politicians described the Joe Camel images as a "cartoon" intended to advertise the product to people below the legal smoking age.	Under pressure from various anti-smoking groups, the Federal Trade Commission, and the U.S. Congress, Camel ended the campaign on July 10, 1997. 
noLabel	Interest in fallout shelters has largely dropped, as the perceived threat of global nuclear war reduced after the end of the Cold War.	In Switzerland, most residential shelters are no longer stocked with the food and water required for prolonged habitation and a large number have been converted by the owners to other uses (e.g., wine cellars, ski rooms, gyms).
noLabel	Compared to a fission bomb with the identical explosive yield, a neutron bomb would emit about ten times the amount of neutron radiation.	In a fission bomb, radiation pulse energy is approximately 5% of entire energy released; in the neutron bomb it would be closer to 50%.
noLabel	In 1996 the British Medical Journal published a letter by 20 men saying that "we have been harmed by circumcision in childhood"; they argued that "it cannot be ethical for a doctor to amputate normal tissue from a normal child" .	Dr. Benjamin Spock (d. 1998), whose Baby and Child Care is the biggest selling American single-author book in history, originally supported circumcision but changed his mind near the end of his life . 
noLabel	TBI is a leading cause of death and disability around the globe and presents a major worldwide social, economic, and health problem .	It is the number one cause of coma, it plays the leading role in disability due to trauma, and is the leading cause of brain damage in children and young adults .
noLabel	Musicians United for Safe Energy (MUSE) was a musical group founded in 1979 by Jackson Browne, Graham Nash, Bonnie Raitt, and John Hall, following the Three Mile Island nuclear accident.	The group organized a series of five No Nukes concerts held at Madison Square Garden in New York City in September 1979.
noLabel	Substantial flooding of the upper part of the river is not required for smaller-scale run-of-river projects as a large reservoir is not required.	As a result, people living at or near the river don't need to be relocated and natural habitats and productive farmlands are not wiped out.
noLabel	It also identified a very specific, time-consuming process for assignment appeals (to the local school board, the state board of education, state circuit courts, state supreme court, and eventually the U.S. Supreme Court) .	Finally, it contained a "local option" that would allow racial integration in public schools "where localities are ready" (according to Boothe) . 
noLabel	In September, internal documents from Kaupthing Bank were leaked, from shortly before the collapse of Iceland's banking sector, which led to the 2008–2011 Icelandic financial crisis.	The document shows that suspiciously large sums of money were loaned to various owners of the bank, and large debts written off .
noLabel	Additionally, Sudanese who managed to enter Israel without being spotted by Israeli authorities also avoided detention if they managed to register with UNHCR in Tel Aviv.	At the same time, Israeli authorities have partnered with UNHCR in Israel to grant some form of temporary protection for thousands of asylum seekers in the country, even granting them, to a certain degree, access to some social services and seek employment . 
noLabel	During an ASEAN meeting in Thailand in July 2009, US secretary of state Hillary Clinton highlighted concerns of the North Korean link.	"We know there are also growing concerns about military cooperation between North Korea and Burma which we take very seriously," Clinton said .
noLabel	Hamshahri, Iran's largest newspaper has announced that it will be holding an "international cartoon contest about the Holocaust" in reaction to the images.	The paper's graphics editor said, "The Western papers printed these sacrilegious cartoons on the pretext of freedom of expression, so let's see if they mean what they say and also print these Holocaust cartoons" .
noLabel	Under the treaty, both parties assumed an obligation to maintain and develop their capacities to resist armed attack in common and to assist each other in case of armed attack on territories under Japanese administration.	It was understood, however, that Japan could not come to the defense of the United States because it was constitutionally forbidden to send armed forces overseas (Article 9).
noLabel	An early example of espionage literature is Kim by the English novelist Rudyard Kipling, with a description of the training of an intelligence agent in the Great Game between the UK and Russia in 19th century Central Asia.	An even earlier work was James Fenimore Cooper's classic novel, The Spy, written in 1821, about an American spy in New York during the Revolutionary War. 
noLabel	The country office consists of the WR, and several health and other experts, both foreign and local, as well as the necessary support staff .	The main functions of WHO country offices include being the primary adviser of that country's government in matters of health and pharmaceutical policies . 
noLabel	An October 2009 poll by Léger Marketing found that 45% of Canadians consider the monarchy to be useless to Canada and feel that the country should sever all formal ties with the Queen, while 44% considered the monarchy to be a tradition that should be maintained.	Opposition to the institution was strongest in Quebec where 78% believe the monarchy is useless to Canada and should be ended, and only 11% wanted to maintain it . 
noLabel	Other immigrants from Central and Eastern Europe are Ukrainians (260,000), Polish (120,000), Moldovans (190 000) Macedonians (100,000), Serbs (75,000), Bulgarians (124,000), Bosnians (40,000), Russians (45,600), Croatians (25,000), Slovakians (9,000), Hungarians (8,600).	As of 2009, the foreign born population origin of Italy was subdivided as follows: Europe (53.5%), Africa (22.3%), Asia (15.8%), the Americas (8.1%) and Oceania (0.06%).
noLabel	A wide range of sports were already established by the time of Ancient Greece and the military culture and the development of sports in Greece influenced one another considerably.	Sports became such a prominent part of their culture that the Greeks created the Olympic Games, which in ancient times were held every four years in a small village in the Peloponnesus called Olympia . 
noLabel	Other areas of the brain that may be affected include the upper part of the brain stem, the fornix, the corpus callosum, the temporal lobe, and the frontal lobe .	Angular accelerations of 4600, 5900, or 7900 radian/s2 are estimated to have 25, 50, or 80% risk of MTBI respectively .
noLabel	Part I offenses include: murder and non-negligent homicide; non-lethal violent crimes comprising robbery, forcible rape and aggravated assault; and property crimes comprising burglary, larceny/theft, motor vehicle theft and arson.	Part II offenses include fraud, forgery/counterfeiting, embezzlement, simple assault, sex offenses, offenses against the family, drug and liquor offenses, weapons offenses and other non-violent offenses excluding traffic violations . 
noLabel	"If it sees a problem part of the world or a problem sport, it should have the ability to go in and make an assessment and give it a clean bill of health or otherwise.	I want to know where my athletes should be cautious about going and where they shouldn't," he says.In contrast with the Wild West of the pre-Wada days, there is at least now a standardised testing regime across the world in all sports and a coherent framework for out-of-competition testing.But as the case of Armstrong proves ΓÇô he famously boasted never to have failed a test ΓÇô laboratories can only go so far.
noLabel	The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), charged with enforcing the 1964 act, even decided in 1965 that segregated job advertising—"Help Wanted Male" and "Help Wanted Female"—was permissible because it served "the convenience of readers" .	Advocates for women's rights founded the National Organization for Women (NOW) in June 1966 out of frustration with the enforcement of the sex bias provisions of the Civil Rights Act and Executive Order 11375 . 
noLabel	According to India's ex-Army Chief General Sunderji, a country having the capability of making nuclear weapons does not need to have chemical weapons, since the dread of chemical weapons could be created only in those countries that do not have nuclear weapons.	Others suggested that the fact that India has found chemical weapons dispensable highlighted its confidence in the conventional weapons system at its command. 
noLabel	In the 2011 Canadian federal election, a surge in the New Democratic Party's vote led to a large fall in the number of elected BQ candidates.	It was also theorized that vote-splitting caused by the increase in NDP popularity was partially to blame for the significant losses suffered by the Liberal Party to the Conservatives. 
noLabel	The Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness was held in Busan, South Korea from 29 November 2011 to 1 December 2011.	The Forum brought together political leaders, government representatives, parliamentarians, civil society organisations and private sector representatives from both developing and donor countries. 
noLabel	The poll showed that 65% of Republican primary voters are willing to consider another candidate other than Senator Richard Lugar and support falls for Senator Lugar from 52% on the ballot to 29% once voters hear more about his voting record .	Additionally, Mourdock released a list of 12 Republican State Central Committee members and 67 GOP County Chairs who publicly endorsed him . 
noLabel	" "Now, I think the Russians ought to understand that we will support – we, the United States – will support the inclusion of Georgia and Ukraine in the natural process, inclusion into NATO""And watch Ukraine.	This whole thing has got a lot to do with Ukraine, Crimea, the base of the Russian fleet in Sevastopol," said McCain during the first presidential debate of 2008 on September 26 .
noLabel	This is evidenced by the fact that many minority students begin school with vocabularies that contain much fewer words than the vocabularies of their Caucasian peers.	Parents who have less income are less likely to spend money on books for their children, making it difficult for young children to develop their vocabulary skills relative to others. 
noLabel	Open Source for America is a group created to raise awareness in the U.S. Federal Government about the benefits of open source software.	Their stated goals are to encourage the government’s utilization of open source software, participation in open source software projects, and incorporation of open source community dynamics to increase government transparency . 
noLabel	No lawyer can be present in investigation discussions in Japan, though a translator is provided, and no mention made of an equivalent to America's Miranda rights.	Another issue is the lack of jury trials in Japan, previous to 2009 all trials were decided by a judge or panel of judges.
noLabel	Juvenile delinquents who have recurring encounters with the criminal justice system, or in other words those who are life-course-persistent offenders, are sometimes diagnosed with conduct disorders because they show a continuous disregard for their own and others safety and/or property.	Once the juvenile continues to exhibit the same behavioral patterns and turns eighteen he is then at risk of being diagnosed with antisocial personality disorder and much more prone to become a serious criminal offender.
noLabel	A meta-analysis of the African randomised controlled trials found that the risk in circumcised males was 0.44 times that in uncircumcised males, and reported that 72 circumcisions would need to be performed to prevent one HIV infection.	The authors also stated that using circumcision as a means to reduce HIV infection would, on a national level, require consistently safe sexual practices to maintain the protective benefit . 
noLabel	However, unlike comparable public or private institutions in other countries, the MPAA does not have the power to limit the retail sale of movies in tape or disc form based on their content, nor does it affect movie distribution in public (i.e., government-funded) libraries.	Since 2000, it has become quite common for movie studios to release "unrated" DVD versions of films with MPAA-censored content put back in. 
noLabel	The article states that a criminal offence is one under either national or international law, which would permit a party to prosecute someone for a crime which was not illegal under their domestic law at the time, so long as it was prohibited by international law.	The Article also prohibits a heavier penalty being imposed than was applicable at the time when the criminal act was committed. 
noLabel	Given the limited budget for schools, it is claimed that a voucher system would weaken public schools while at the same time not necessarily providing enough money for people to attend private schools.	According to the National Conference of State Legislatures, 76% of the money handed out for Arizona’s voucher program has gone to children already in private schools . 
noLabel	After the development of the first nuclear weapons during World War II, though, there was much debate within the political circles and public sphere of the United States about whether or not the country should attempt to maintain a monopoly on nuclear technology, or whether it should undertake a program of information sharing with other nations (especially its former ally and likely competitor, the Soviet Union), or submit control of its weapons to some sort of international organization (such as the United Nations) who would use them to attempt to maintain world peace.	Though fear of a nuclear arms race spurred many politicians and scientists to advocate some degree of international control or sharing of nuclear weapons and information, many politicians and members of the military believed that it was better in the short term to maintain high standards of nuclear secrecy and to forestall a Soviet bomb as long as possible (and they did not believe the USSR would actually submit to international controls in good faith).
noLabel	Labeling theory, consequently, suggests that deviance is caused by the deviant's being labeled as morally inferior, the deviant's internalizing the label and finally the deviant's acting according to that specific label(in other words, you label the "deviant" and they act accordingly).	As time goes by, the "deviant" takes on traits that constitute deviance by committing such deviations as conform to the label(so you as the audience have the power to not label them and you have the power to stop the deviance before it ever occurs by not labeling them) .
noLabel	Foote and Goetz also point out that Donohue and Levitt accidentally used the total number of arrests, not the arrest rate, to explain the murder rate.	Using the total number of arrests does not establish the unwantedness mechanism Donohue and Levitt propose, only that the total number of arrests has changed.
noLabel	Earl Raab, founding director of the Nathan Perlmutter Institute for Jewish Advocacy at Brandeis University writes that "[t]here is a new surge of antisemitism in the world, and much prejudice against Israel is driven by such antisemitism," but argues that charges of antisemitism based on anti-Israel opinions generally lack credibility.	He writes that "a grave educational misdirection is imbedded in formulations suggesting that if we somehow get rid of antisemitism, we will get rid of anti-Israelism.
noLabel	As part of the general restructuring that the crisis provoked the Immigration Service was again divided into two different management structures.	The previous Ports Directorate and Enforcement Directorate were done away with and the service was partially regionalised under the command of "Immigration Service Regional Operations" and "Immigration Service SE Operations" . 
noLabel	On September 14, 2010, Rangel prevailed in the primary election, gaining 51&nbsp;percent of the vote against Powell's 23&nbsp;percent and lesser amounts for the other contenders .	He then won the November 2, 2010, general election easily, garnering 80&nbsp;percent of the vote against Republican Michel Faulkner's 10&nbsp;percent and smaller amounts for third-party candidates .
noLabel	The Industrial Revolution during the nineteenth century and the growth of science and technology, medicine and health care, resulted in better contraceptives being manufactured.	Advances in the manufacture and production of rubber made possible the design and production of condoms that could be used by hundreds of millions of men and women to prevent pregnancy at little cost. 
noLabel	While there is significant debate about solutions, the significant long-term risk posed by the increase in entitlement spending is widely recognized, with health care costs (Medicare and Medicaid) the primary risk category .	In a June 2010 opinion piece in the Wall Street Journal, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan noted that "Only politically toxic cuts or rationing of medical care, a marked rise in the eligible age for health and retirement benefits, or significant inflation, can close the deficit.
noLabel	It was however the first legislation to define some groups of migrants as 'undesirable', thereby making entry to the United Kingdom discretionary, rather than automatic.	The Act ensured that leave to land could be withheld if the immigrant was judged to fall into one of four categories: 
noLabel	The election of a Labor Government in 1972 marked the end of a period where Australians saw themselves principally as part of the Commonwealth of Nations (formerly the British Empire).	Prime Minister Gough Whitlam instituted a number of changes, including removing reference to the United Kingdom in Queen Elizabeth's Australian title on 19 October 1973, when she signed her assent to the Royal Style and Titles Act, and creating a domestic system of conferring civil and military honours.
noLabel	He mentioned an interest in steroids, then later confided to his brother, Donald, that he was using them, while still denying it to his parents.	At his parents' urging, Taylor was tested for drugs last April, but his parents said they later discovered that the screening had involved recreational drugs, not steroids.
noLabel	This policy of price control was coeval with the Committee of Public Safety's rise to power and the Reign of Terror.	The Committee first attempted to set the price for only a limited number of grain products but, by September 1793, it expanded the "maximum" to cover all foodstuffs and a long list of other goods .
noLabel	Critics have pointed to the heavy dependence on federal loans and grants to students, the low student completion rate, and the inability of the majority of graduates to pay their student loans because they failed to secure high-paying jobs .	The University of Phoenix reports that in 2009, 23% of its students completed an associate degree within three years of enrolling, and for bachelor’s degree students, its six-year completion rate was 34% . 
noLabel	In 2009, at COP-15 in Copenhagen, the Copenhagen Accord of 18 December 2009 was reached, noting in section 6 the recognition of the crucial role of REDD and REDD-plus and the need to provide positive incentives for such actions by enabling the mobilization of financial resources from developed countries .	The Accord goes on to note in section 8 that the collective commitment by developed countries for new and additional resources, including forestry and investments through international institutions, will approach USD 30 billion for the period 2010 - 2012.
noLabel	Christian philosopher Peter Kreeft provides several answers to the problem of evil and suffering, including that a) God may use short-term evils for long-range goods, b) God created the possibility of evil, but not the evil itself, and that free will was necessary for the highest good of real love.	Kreeft says that being all-powerful doesn't mean being able to do what is logically contradictory, e.g., giving freedom with no potentiality for sin, c) God's own suffering and death on the cross brought about his supreme triumph over the devil, d) God uses suffering to bring about moral character, quoting apostle Paul in Romans 5, e) Suffering can bring people closer to God, and f) The ultimate "answer" to suffering is Jesus himself, who, more than any explanation, is our real need .
noLabel	Three days before the attack, a North Korean cargo ship carrying materials labeled as cement docked in the Syrian port of Tartus .	Gordon Thomas wrote that as the ship was being unloaded, a Mossad operative photographed the process with a hidden camera .
noLabel	Given the lack of government funding, the transitional government appears to have little choice but to take money from one of the only profitable industries in the country.	Even if the central government wanted to halt the illegal logging and export, they would be hamstrung by decentralization and a lack of funds, leaving them unable to deal with corrupt provincial bureaucrats . 
noLabel	The only British players of either sex to reach the world top 50 in recent years are Greg Rusedski, who learnt his tennis in Canada, and Tim Henman and Andy Murray, who did not pass through the LTA system either, and on the women's side Anne Keothavong and Elena Baltacha have both just slipped into the worlds top 50 with highest rankings of 48 and 49 respectively.	Outside of Wimbledon fortnight tennis's profile in Britain is low, and since the 2007 retirement of Rusedski and Henman is now largely dependent on Murray. 
noLabel	He said: "Our efforts honor the generations of Americans who have taken extraordinary risks, and willingly confronted hatred, bias and ignorance ΓÇô as well as billy clubs and fire hoses, bullets and bombs ΓÇô to ensure that their children, and all American citizens, would have the chance to participate in the work of their government.	The right to vote is not only the cornerstone of our system of government ΓÇô it is the lifeblood of our democracy.
noLabel	After recording one save last season, Taylor Hooton expected to join the starting rotation next spring for the baseball team at Plano West Senior High School.	You could count on the kid to throw strikes, said Billy Ajello, Taylor's best friend and a catcher at Plano West, which is located amid the affluent sprawl north of Dallas.
noLabel	Handgun Control Inc. (HCI), founded in 1974 by businessman Pete Shields, formed a partnership with the National Coalition to Ban Handguns (NCBH), also founded in 1974.	Soon parting ways, the NCBH was renamed the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence in 1990, and while smaller than HCI, generally took a tougher stand on gun regulation than HCI . 
noLabel	Out of these bills grew a system of government-controlled agricultural commodity prices and government supply control (farmers being paid to leave land unused).	Supply control would continue to be used to decrease overproduction, leading to over to be set aside during times of low commodity prices (1955–1973, 1984–1995), until the practice was eventually ended by the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996.
noLabel	That the umpires shall be provided with a watch, for the purpose of calling time; and that they mutually agree upon which this duty shall devolve, the call of that umpire only to be attended to, and no other person whatever to interfere in calling time.	That the referee shall withhold all opinion till appealed to by the umpires, and that the umpires strictly abide by his decision without dispute. 
noLabel	Andrew Hamilton defended him and was made famous for his speech, ending in, "..nature and the laws of our country have given us a right to liberty of both exposing and opposing arbitrary power [..] by speaking and writing truth.	" While the judge ruled against his arguments, Hamilton invoked the concept of jury nullification in the cause of liberty and won a not guilty verdict.
noLabel	Often economics is conceptualized as "the study of how society manages its scarce resources" and is methodologically limited to mathematical inquiry  These guidelines, traditional economists often argue, are used to assure objectivity and separate economics from "softer" fields including sociology and political science.	Feminist economists, however, argue that this conception of economics is a holdover from the early years of the development of modern science and Cartesian philosophy and limits economic analysis.
noLabel	Andrew Heywood distinguishes between two forms of multiculturalism, "the term ‘multiculturalism’ has been used in a variety of ways, both descriptive and normative .	As a descriptive term, it has been taken to refer to cultural diversity … As a normative term, multiculturalism implies a positive endorsement, even celebration, of communal diversity, typically based on either the right of different groups to respect and recognition, or to the alleged benefits to the larger society of moral and cultural diversity” .
noLabel	Between about 1958 and 1986, both the Chiapas State and Federal governments either actively or passively favoured migration to “undeveloped” forest-land.	The Chiapas state government looked favourably upon the migration of Indians to the Selva Lacandona, as it tended to reduce the pressure on land and particularly the demands for land reforms in parts of Chiapas where a latifundio system predominated.
noLabel	Anabolic steroids were first isolated, identified, and synthesized in the 1930s, and are now used therapeutically in medicine to stimulate bone growth and appetite, induce male puberty, and treat chronic wasting conditions, such as cancer and AIDS.	The American College of Sports Medicine acknowledges that AAS, in the presence of adequate diet, can contribute to increases in body weight, often as lean mass increases, and that the gains in muscular strength achieved through high-intensity exercise and proper diet can be additionally increased by the use of AAS in some individuals . 
noLabel	The Immigration Service, for its part, also produced paper files and, if there was no bar to removing the person, would have no need to liaise with the centre.	But, as further appeals were introduced, asylum applications rose and other barriers were raised that according to standing rules needed the scrutiny of an HQ caseworker.
noLabel	Strom Thurmond moved the bill through the Senate, calling draft-card burning "contumacious conduct" which "represents a potential threat to the exercise of the power to raise and support armies.	" At the time, many observers (including the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit) believed that Congress had intentionally targeted anti-war draft-card burners .
noLabel	On August 27, she visited McCain's vacation home near Sedona, Arizona, where she was offered the position of vice-presidential candidate .	According to Jill Hazelbaker, a spokeswoman for McCain, he had previously met Palin at the National Governors Association meeting in Washington in February 2008 and had come away "extraordinarily impressed.
noLabel	The strictest sense of positive atheism does not entail any specific beliefs outside of disbelief in any deity; as such, atheists can hold any number of spiritual beliefs.	For the same reason, atheists can hold a wide variety of ethical beliefs, ranging from the moral universalism of humanism, which holds that a moral code should be applied consistently to all humans, to moral nihilism, which holds that morality is meaningless .
noLabel	Large-scale compressed air energy storage facilities are used to smooth out demands on electricity generation by providing energy during peak hours and storing energy during off-peak hours.	All storage systems save on generating capacity since primary energy sources only need to meet average consumption rather than peak consumption .
noLabel	Although he was raised in a large family, after becoming involved in the environmental movement as a college student in the 1970s, Knight attributed most of the dangers faced by the planet to human overpopulation.	After coming to this conclusion, he joined the Zero Population Growth organization and chose to be vasectomised at age 25 .
noLabel	These low enforcement levels continue despite massive outcry from the American public and a large volume of certified scientific polling data showing super majorities of Americans in support of existing U.S. immigration laws.	Many American activists and illegal immigration reduction groups have argued that the under-enforcement of U.S. immigration laws constitutes a Constitutional crisis since the will of the American public and actual legislation passed by Congress has little or no impact on policy undertaken by the Executive Branch under both Republican and Democratic administrations.
noLabel	Paul claims that government meddling in health care delivery is to blame for healthcare costs having skyrocketed over the past few decades.	He recalls that in the early 1960s, patients typically paid for basic medical services with cash, as there was almost no government payment for care, and as those Americans who had private insurance were typically only covered for hospitalization and emergency care .
noLabel	One of the reasons often given for opposing any form of cultural imperialism, voluntary or otherwise, is the preservation of cultural diversity, a goal seen by some as analogous to the preservation of ecological diversity.	Proponents of this idea argue either that such diversity is valuable in itself, to preserve human historical heritage and knowledge, or instrumentally valuable because it makes available more ways of solving problems and responding to catastrophes, natural or otherwise.
noLabel	The Soviet atomic project benefited from highly successful espionage efforts on the part of the Glavnoye Razvedyvatel'noye Upravleniye (GRU) as well as the foreign intelligence department of the Narodnyy komissariat vnutrennikh del (NKVD).	Evidence from intelligence sources in the United Kingdom had a role to play in the decision of the Soviet State Defense Council (Gosudarstvennyj komitet oborony (GKO)), in September 1942, to approve resolution 2352, which signaled the beginning of the Soviet atom bomb project. 
noLabel	Rotation of nominations to the U.S. House of Representatives – the prizes – became a key element of payoffs to the party faithful.	The leading lights in the local party machinery came to regard a nomination for the House as "salary" for political services rendered.
noLabel	While the same study found "some evidence" of an association between adult circumcision and an increased risk of invasive penile cancer, the authors suggested this may have been due to adult circumcisions being used as a treatment for penile cancer or a condition that is itself a precursor to cancer, rather than a direct result of the procedure itself.	With respect to the quality of the studies included in the meta-analysis, the overall risk of bias was evaluated as "high", leading to a possibility that the protective effect of circumcision was underestimated . 
noLabel	" In another instance Hamada Al-Samouni, a survivor of the Zeitoun incident, said he had seen the bodies of eight Hamas fighters dressed in civilian clothing lying in the streets around Zeitoun .In the Shifa hospital, Hamas militants wearing civilian clothing executed several people that were accused of collaboration with Israel and were awaiting awaiting trial.	One person was shot in the left side of the head after a pretence that he was being transferred to another ward .The UN Mission did note that reports by other human rights groups indicate that not all members of Palestinians armed groups were always dressed in military uniform .
noLabel	In 2009, the European Court of Justice favoured a broad view of culture - beyond cultural values - through the protection of film or the objective of promoting linguistic diversity yet previously recognized.	On top of it, under this Convention, the EU and China have committed to fostering more balanced cultural exchanges, strengthening international cooperation and solidarity with business and trade opportunities in cultural and creative industries . 
noLabel	The first open uprisings in Canada against the monarchical system came in 1837, with the Lower Canada Rebellionled by Louis Joseph Papineau and his Parti Patrioteand the Upper Canada Rebellionled by William Lyon Mackenzie.	Though their main motives were for more representative government in their respective colonies, Mackenzie was inspired by the American model and wished to establish the same in Canada, and Papineau, who originally expressed loyalty to the Crown in his Ninety-Two Resolutions, turned when the British parliament instead adopted The Earl Russell's Ten Resolutions, which ignored all 92 of the requests from the Parti Patriote.
noLabel	In the 1920s and 1930s, anti-Semitism was a major deal in Canada, due to the rise of the Nazi government in Germany.	For example, on August 16, 1933 there was a baseball game in Toronto and one team was made up of mostly Jewish players.
noLabel	Wilhelm Reich commented that sex education of his time was a work of deception, focusing on biology while concealing excitement-arousal, which is what a pubescent individual is mostly interested in.	Reich added that this emphasis obscures what he believed to be a basic psychological principle: that all worries and difficulties originate from unsatisfied sexual impulses .
noLabel	In a meeting on September 2, 2008, with leaders of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), a pro-Israel lobby, Palin stated that she would "work to expand and deepen the strategic partnership between U.S. and Israel.	" Following the meeting, an AIPAC spokesman stated that Palin had "expressed her deep, personal, and lifelong commitment to the safety and well-being of Israel.
noLabel	The 1st century BCE Roman poet, Titus Lucretius Carus, in his magnum opus De Rerum Natura, wrote: "But 'tis that same religion oftener far / Hath bred the foul impieties of men:" A philosopher of the Epicurean school, Lucretius believed the world was composed solely of matter and void, and that all phenomena could be understood as resulting from purely natural causes.	Lucretius, like Epicurus, felt that religion was born of fear and ignorance, and that understanding the natural world would free people of its shackles . 
noLabel	One suggested trigger for the modern revolution was the development of the birth control pill in 1960, which gave women access to easy and reliable contraception.	Another likely factor was vast improvements in obstetrics, which greatly reduced the number of women who die in childbirth and thus increases the life expectancy of women. 
noLabel	The intersection of Christianity and abortion has a long and complex history though there is no mention of abortion in the Christian Bible, and there is scholarly disagreement on how early Christians felt about abortion.	Some scholars have concluded that early Christians took a nuanced stance on what is now called abortion, and that at different and in separate places early Christians have taken different stances .
noLabel	In a debate which aired on Al-Alam TV on May 5, 2010 (as translated by MEMRI), Ali Hatar of the Jordanian Association against Zionism and Racism stated that "To this day, those who claim that [the Holocaust] did take place have been unable to provide any evidence whatsoever to that effect."	He claimed that a report by the Red Cross in 1949 "refutes the claim that anyone was killed in these camps, during the so-called Holocaust.
noLabel	In the last few years certain strains of cannabis with higher concentrations of THC and drug tourism have challenged the former policy in the Netherlands and led to a more restrictive approach; for example, a ban on selling cannabis to tourists in coffeeshops suggested to start late 2011 .	Sale and possession of cannabis is still illegal in Portugal and possession of cannabis is a federal crime in the United states.
noLabel	It is well established that the wording of the questions, the order in which they are asked and the number and form of alternative answers offered can influence results of polls.	For instance, the public is more likely to indicate support for a person who is described by the operator as one of the "leading candidates".
noLabel	As well, smoke undergoes changes as it ages, which causes the transformation of the compound NO into the more toxic NO2.	Further, volatilization causes smoke particles to become smaller, and thus more easily embedded deep into the lung of anyone who later breathes the air .
noLabel	The Selective Service registration form states that failure to register is a felony punishable by up to five years imprisonment or a $250,000 fine .	In practice, no one has been prosecuted for failure to comply with draft registration since 1986, in part because prosecutions of draft resisters proved counter-productive for the government, and in part because of the difficulty of proving that noncompliance with the law was "knowing and willful."
noLabel	Mexico is one of the few countries which has capabilities to manufacture nuclear weapons but has renounced them and pledged to only use its nuclear technology for peaceful purposes following the Treaty of Tlatelolco in 1968 .	In the 1970s Mexico's national institute for nuclear research successfully enriched weapons-grade uranium  which is used in the construction of nuclear weapons.
noLabel	Those not belonging to the designated communities can compete only for the remaining positions, while members of the designated communities can compete for all positions (reserved and open).	For example, when 1 out of 10 clerical positions in railways are reserved for ex-servicemen, those who have served in the Army can compete both in the General Category as well as in the specific quota. 
noLabel	Environmental design focuses on improving street lighting, controlling access to buildings, restricting pedestrian and traffic flow, and dividing residential spaces into identifiable areas.	The most ambitious environmental design schemes have been carried out in the United States where the property of the rich is protected by expensive hardware, alarm systems, and even private guards.
noLabel	The most famous episodes of vote buying came in 18th century England, when two or more rich aristocrats spent whatever money it took to win.	The notorious "Spendthrift election" came in Northamptonshire in 1768, when three earls spent over ₤100,000 each to win a seat . 
noLabel	Indiana's photo ID law barred twelve retired nuns in South Bend, Indiana from voting in that state's 2008 Democratic primary election.	The women lacked the photo IDs required under a state law that was upheld by the U.S. Supreme Court in April 2008.
noLabel	Better liaison and better intelligence started to bring rewards - Operation Gular disrupted a network responsible for smuggling over 400 people into the UK over a two year period.	Five men were sentenced to a total of 20 years as a result of closer working with the French authorities .
noLabel	Due process protection requires that government employees have a fair procedural process before they are terminated if the termination is related to a "liberty" (such as the right to free speech) or property interest.	As both Due Process and Equal Protection Clauses are passive, the clause that empowers Congress to pass anti-discrimination bills (so they are not unconstitutional under Tenth Amendment) is Section 5 of Fourteenth Amendment. 
noLabel	A further concern is that countries may develop various sensitive nuclear fuel cycle facilities and research reactors under full safeguards and then subsequently opt out of the NPT.	Bilateral agreements, such as insisted upon by Australia and Canada for sale of uranium, address this by including fallback provisions, but many countries are outside the scope of these agreements.
noLabel	Since real political power belongs to the head of the sole legal party, in certain states under Marxist constitutions of the constitutionally socialist state type inspired by the former USSR and its constitutive Soviet republics, there was no formal office of head of state, but rather the head of the legislative "soviet" branch of power was considered the head of state.	In the Soviet Union this office carried such titles as Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the USSR; Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet; and in the case of the Soviet Russia Chairman of the Central Executive Committee of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets (pre-1922), and Chairman of the Bureau of the Central Committee of the Russian SFSR (1956–1966).
noLabel	The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) circumcision policy has been criticised, both by those who believe that it is too negative about the practice, and those who believe that it is too positive .	Hill has also criticised the Academy's circumcision information brochure for parents, arguing that the brochure is inadequate to persuade parents to avoid circumcision . 
noLabel	" American exceptionalism is sometimes linked with hypocrisy; for example, the US keeps a huge stockpile of nuclear weapons while urging other nations not to get them, and justifies that it can make an exception to a policy of non-proliferation .	When the United States didn't support an environmental treaty made by many nations in Kyoto or treaties made concerning the Geneva Convention, then critics saw American exceptionalism as counterproductive .
noLabel	Smith also points out that laws that prevent religious freedom and seek to preserve the power and believe in a particular religion will, in the long run, only serve to weaken and corrupt that religion.	As its leaders and preachers become complacent, disconnected and unpractised in their ability to seek and win over new converts . 
noLabel	Following the announcement of plans to introduce austerity measures in Greece, massive demonstrations were witnessed throughout the country, aimed at pressing parliamentarians to vote against the austerity package.	In Athens alone 19 arrests were made while 46 civilians and 38 policemen had been injured by June 29, 2011. the third round austerity has been approved by the Greece parliament on February 12, 2012 and has met strong opposition especially in the cities of Athens and Thessaloniki where the police have clashed with demonstrators. 
noLabel	If an interest is not deemed a "property" right, or the conduct is merely an intentional tort, these limitations do not apply and the doctrine of sovereign immunity precludes relief .	Moreover, if the interference does not almost completely make the property valueless, the interference will not be deemed a taking but instead a mere regulation of use .
noLabel	The 2007 Burmese anti-government protests were a series of anti-government protests that started in Burma (also known as Union of Myanmar) on 15 August 2007.	The immediate cause of the protests was mainly the unannounced decision of the ruling junta, the State Peace and Development Council, to remove fuel subsidies, which caused the price of diesel and petrol to suddenly rise as much as 66%, and the price of compressed natural gas for buses to increase fivefold in less than a week . 
noLabel	Paul proposes sharply reducing the government's regulation of medications and health supplements by reducing the role of, and ultimately eliminating, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) .	In a 2011 interview, Paul said, "Well, the FDA just serves the drug companies, you know.. [and] they also prevent drugs from coming on the market [until] 10, 15 years later than other countries have it.
noLabel	Over time, a variety of related topics began to be addressed by agricultural policy: soil conservation (1956 Soil Bank Act), surplus crops as food aid (National School Lunch Act of 1946, Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954, the 1964 Food Stamp Act), and much later wetlands and habitat conservation (Food Security Act of 1985, 1990 Wetlands Reserve Program, 1996 Wildlife Habitat and Environmental Quality Incentive Programs and 2002 Grassland Reserve Program) and organic food labeling (Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990).	During this time, agricultural financial support also increased, through raised price supports, export subsidies, increased crop insurance (1938 Agricultural Adjustment Act), expanding price supports to different crops(Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000), offering more guaranteed federal loans, and through the replacement of some price supports with fixed payments (Food and Agricultural Act of 1962 and Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996). 
noLabel	In December 1997, a group of heavily armed Mexican special forces soldiers kidnapped twenty young men in Ocotlan, Jalisco, brutally torturing them and killing one.	Six of the implicated officers had received U.S. training as part of the Grupo Aeromóvil de Fuerzas Especiales (GAFE) training program .
noLabel	Kemp also highlighted many of the efforts made by the IDF to reduce collateral damage including; Giving civilians four hour notice to leave targeted areas, dropping over 900,000 leaflets, making over 30,000 phone calls to Palestinian households in Gaza, aborting airstrikes where the risk of collateral damage would be too great and allowing huge amounts of humanitarian aid to Gaza, at risk to themselves .	Kemp reserved his criticism for Hamas which he said deliberately deployed its forces behind the "human shield of the civilian population" and employed a deliberate policy of operating consistently outside international law .
noLabel	Negotiations toward reconciliation between the PA and the Hamas administration, which were mediated by Egypt, produced a preliminary agreement in 2011, which was supposed to be implemented by May 2012 through joint elections.	Despite the peace plan, Palestinan sources were qouted in January 2012 as saying that the May joint elections "would not be possible".
noLabel	The Supreme Council called for "peaceful protests that reflect the civilized aspect of Islam," and recommended dialogue with the West to "spread the true tenets of Islam and shed light on the life and precepts of prophet Mohammed."	The Supreme Council also called for Islamic countries and the Organisation of the Islamic Conference to push for a United Nations resolution to criminalise blasphemy against Islam, "for the sake of global peace and harmony" . 
noLabel	The water of a deep reservoir in temperate climes typically stratifies with a large volume of cold, oxygen poor water in the hypolimnion.	If this water is released to maintain river flow, it can cause adverse impacts on the downstream ecosystem including fish populations. 
noLabel	The first article of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen proclaims that “Men are born and remain free and equal in rights.	Social distinctions may be based only on common utility.” The first article of Declaration of the Rights of Woman and the Female Citizen replied: “Woman is born free and remains equal to man in rights.
noLabel	Full-time education is compulsory for all children aged between 5 and 16, with a child beginning primary education during the school year he or she turns 5 .	Students may then continue their secondary studies for a further two years (sixth form), leading most typically to A-level qualifications, although other qualifications and courses exist, including Business and Technology Education Council (BTEC) qualifications, the International Baccalaureate (IB) and the Cambridge Pre-U.
noLabel	A particular study that focused on pregnant women in a few Latin American and African countries, India and Pakistan, it was shown that “[w]omen in Latin America had the highest level of tobacco use.”  The probability of living with a tobacco user was also high in Latin America but highest in Asia .	Specific countries such as Argentina and Uruguay had the highest percentages of women who were once regular smokers, who had smoked during their current pregnancy and who thought is was acceptable for women to smoke . 
noLabel	In 2000, Robert Wood Johnson Foundation formally launched their active living initiative which comprised three national programs - Active Living by Design, Active Living Research, and Active for Life.	The main goal of these programs was to develop an understanding how the built environment impacted physical activity and what could be done to increase physical activity .
noLabel	Palin has two grandchildren, a boy named Tripp Easton Mitchell Johnston, who was born to her eldest daughter, Bristol, and her then-fiancee, Levi Johnston, in 2008, and a girl named Kyla Grace Palin, who was born to son Track and his wife, Britta, in 2011 .	Her husband Todd worked for the British oil company BP as an oil-field production operator, retiring in 2009, and owns a commercial fishing business . 
noLabel	The alarming predictions by the UN, charities and some environmentalists, that between 200 million and 1 billion people could flood across international borders to escape the impacts of climate change in the next 40 years are unrealistic .	Case studies from Bolivia, Senegal and Tanzania, three countries extremely prone to climate change, show that people affected by environmental degradation rarely move across borders.
noLabel	Historians speculate that Smith was trying to embarrass northern Democrats who opposed civil rights for women because the clause was opposed by labor unions.	Representative Carl Elliott of Alabama later claimed, "Smith didn't give a damn about women's rights..he was trying to knock off votes either then or down the line because there was always a hard core of men who didn't favor women's rights," and the Congressional Record records that Smith was greeted by laughter when he introduced the amendment . 
noLabel	This first device though was arguably not a "true" hydrogen bomb, and could only reach explosive yields in the hundreds of kilotons (never reaching the megaton range of a "staged" weapon).	Still, it was a powerful propaganda tool for the Soviet Union, and the technical differences were fairly oblique to the American public and politicians. 
noLabel	CBO has reported that if current laws are allowed to take effect as scheduled (e.g., if significant tax cuts expire at the end of 2012 and the Budget Control Act of 2011 is implemented) the short-term deficit problem essentially goes away by 2021, assuming a return to pre-crisis growth rates .	Since the path forward on healthcare cost reform is unclear and other countries have much lower costs relative to GDP with comparable results on key measures, various studies could be conducted today to determine future policy actions .
noLabel	Once the game's source code was released in 1997, it spawned even more adaptations, as fans further ported the code to countless devices.	The series started to lose mainstream appeal as the technology of the Doom game engine was surpassed in the mid-1990s, although fans have continued making WADs, speedruns, and modifications to the original. 
noLabel	The bias against girls is very evident among the relatively highly developed, middle-class dominated nations (Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia) and the immigrant Asian communities in the United States and Britain.	Only recently and in some countries (particularly South Korea) have the development and educational campaigns begun to turn the tide, resulting in more normal gender ratios . 
noLabel	Each hookah session typically lasts more than 40 minutes, and consists of 50 to 200 inhalations that each range from 0.15 to 0.50 liters of smoke .	In an hour-long smoking session of hookah, users consume about 100 to 200 times the smoke of a single cigarette; in a 45-minute smoking session a typical smoker would inhale 1.7 times the nicotine  of a single cigarette.
noLabel	Factors cited in the old theory included such social factors as later ages of marriage, the growing desire of many women in such settings to seek careers outside child rearing and domestic work, and the decreased need of children in industrialized settings.	The latter factor stems from the fact that children perform a great deal of work in small-scale agricultural societies, and work less in industrial ones; it has been cited to explain the decline in birth rates in industrializing regions. 
noLabel	However, in this debate the proposition needs to show there is more than just a correlation, but that a major cause of crime lies in social deprivation.	Also, ‘crime’ needs to be defined carefully, as it is a term which covers a very wide variety of activities and behaviours which are very difficult to address together (for example, burglary, incitement to racial hatred, insider trading, paedophilic abuse, driving over the speed limit and murder).
noLabel	In 1999, the BBC produced a special version of its annual BBC Sports Personality of the Year Award ceremony, and Ali was voted their Sports Personality of the Century, receiving more votes than the other four contenders combined.	His daughter Laila Ali became a boxer in 1999, despite her father's earlier comments against female boxing in 1978: "Women are not made to be hit in the breast, and face like that.. the body's not made to be punched right here [patting his chest].
noLabel	Tobacco consumption in New Zealand peaked in the mid 1970s when 60% of the population where smokers, by 2011 that number had fallen to 20% of the population, thanks due to stringent tobacco control laws which are amongst the world's strictest.	However despite these laws, the number of smokers appears to be increasing as the global economy worsens and a recent spate of natural disasters have seen an increase in tobacco sales and although more males smoke than females, this gap is slowly narrowing.
noLabel	Reformers during the early 1990s used the initiative and referendum to put congressional term limits on the ballot in 24 states.	Voters in eight of these states approved the congressional term limits by an average electoral margin of two to one .
noLabel	However, many such models have been proven to be wrong and loss of habitat does not necessarily lead to large scale loss of species .	Species-area models are known to overpredict the number of species known to be threatened in areas where actual deforestation is ongoing, and greatly overpredict the number of threatened species that are widespread .
noLabel	Neoclassical theory posits that factors such as geographic proximity, border enforcement, probability and consequences of arrest, ease of illegal employment, and chances of future legalization govern the likelihood of "successful" illegal immigration .	This model also assumes that illegal workers tend to add to, and compete with, the receiving nation's pool of unskilled laborers.
noLabel	This traditional system of registry, kept for all Japanese by the Ministry of Justice since the 19th century, would reveal an individual's buraku ancestry if consulted.	Under the new legislation, these records could now be consulted only in legal cases, making it more difficult to identify or discriminate against members of the group.
noLabel	Companies such as Iogen, Broin, and Abengoa are building refineries that can process biomass and turn it into ethanol, while companies such as the Verenium Corporation, Novozymes, and Dyadic International are producing enzymes which could enable a cellulosic ethanol future.	The shift from food crop feedstocks to waste residues and native grasses offers significant opportunities for a range of players, from farmers to biotechnology firms, and from project developers to investors .
noLabel	Critics of this typically argue that the proposed criteria for personhood would disqualify two classes of born human beings – reversibly comatose patients, and human infants – from having a right to life, since they, like fetuses, are not self-conscious, do not communicate, and so on .	Defenders of the proposed criteria may respond that the reversibly comatose do satisfy the relevant criteria because they "retain all their unconscious mental states" .
noLabel	This was "the lowest vote of confidence in a running mate since the elder George Bush chose then-Indiana senator Dan Quayle to join his ticket in 1988.	" Following the Convention, her image came under close media scrutiny, particularly with regard to her religious perspective on public life, her socially conservative views, and her perceived lack of experience.
noLabel	This is not storing "surplus" energy produced elsewhere, but the net effect is the same - although without the efficiency losses.	Renewable supplies with variable production, like wind and solar power, tend to increase the net variation in electric load, increasing the opportunity for grid energy storage.
noLabel	In 1986, the Australia Act was enacted, thereafter eliminating the remaining, mainly theoretical, ties between the legislature and judiciary of the United Kingdom and the Australian states.	It was later determined by the High Court in Sue v Hill that this legislation established Britain and Australia as independent nations sharing the same person as their relevant sovereign. 
noLabel	Montessori observed four distinct periods, or "planes", in human development, extending from birth to six years, from six to twelve, from twelve to eighteen, and from eighteen to twenty-four.	She saw different characteristics, learning modes, and developmental imperatives active in each of these planes, and called for educational approaches specific to each period .
noLabel	The same act also introduced more stringent controls with higher criminal penalties for offenses involving the illegal distribution of anabolic steroids and human growth hormone.	By the early 1990s, after anabolic steroids were scheduled in the U.S., several pharmaceutical companies stopped manufacturing or marketing the products in the U.S., including Ciba, Searle, Syntex, and others.
noLabel	According to a BBC report about the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in Gonzales v. Carhart, "government lawyers and others who favour the ban, have said there are alternative and more widely used procedures that are still legal - which involves dismembering the fetus in the uterus.	" An article in Harper's magazine stated that, "Defending the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban.. requires arguing to judges that pulling a fetus from a woman's body in dismembered pieces is legal, medically acceptable, and safe; but that pulling a fetus out intact, so that if the woman wishes the fetus can be wrapped in a blanket and handed to her, is appropriately punishable by a fine, or up to two years' imprisonment, or both.
noLabel	Between 1984 and 1999, the PKK and the Turkish military engaged in open war, and much of the countryside in the southeast was depopulated, with Kurdish civilians moving to local defensible centers such as Diyarbakır, Van, and Şırnak, as well as to the cities of western Turkey and even to western Europe.	The causes of the depopulation included PKK atrocities against Kurdish clans they could not control, the poverty of the southeast, and the Turkish state's military operations .
noLabel	As a result of the USOC's decision, all national governing bodies (USA Track & Field, USA Cycling, USA Swimming, US Soccer , etc.)	rely on USADA to manage the anti-doping programs including testing and results management for their athletes and events throughout the year .
noLabel	Critics of HAVA argue it imprudently attempts to solve one problem of punched-card voting machine errors seen in Florida in the 2000 election, by replacing them with electronic voting machines.	Some believe that HAVA may represent an effort to help large electronic voting systems vendors such as Premier Election Solutions (formerly Diebold Election Systems), Election Systems & Software, and Sequoia Voting Systems make millions of dollars throughout the country in selling electronic voting devices. 
noLabel	Thus, if a community is not self-policing and imperfectly policed by outside agencies, some individuals will exercise unrestricted freedom to express their dispositions and desires, often resulting in delinquent behavior.	They considered the Concentric Zone Theory and produced a diachronic analysis to demonstrate that delinquency was already dispersed in urban areas, and that more wealthy and important groups moved to avoid the existing social disorganization.
noLabel	As stated by Ellingboe, internationalization “is an ongoing, future-oriented, multidimensional, interdisciplinary, leadership-driven vision that involves many stakeholders working to change the internal dynamics of an institution to respond and adapt appropriately to an increasingly diverse, globally focused, ever-changing external environment" .	New distance learning technologies, such as interactive teleconferencing, enable students located thousands of miles apart to communicate and interact in a virtual classroom . 
noLabel	House — $4.3 billion to provide an expanded credit to homeowners who make their homes more energy-efficient in 2009 and 2010.	Homeowners could recoup 30 percent of the cost up to $1,500 of numerous projects, such as installing energy-efficient windows, doors, furnaces and air conditioners. 
noLabel	The issues associated with Internet censorship are similar to those for offline censorship of more traditional media such as newspapers, magazines, books, music, radio, television, and films.	One difference is that national borders are more permeable online: residents of a country that bans certain information can find it on websites hosted outside the country.
noLabel	At the college and university level student loan funding is split in half; half is managed by the Department of Education directly, called the Federal Direct Student Loan Program (FDSLP).	The other half is managed by commercial entities such as banks, credit unions, and financial services firms such as Sallie Mae, under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP).
noLabel	The Geneva Conventions give a mandate to the International Committee of the Red Cross and other impartial humanitarian organizations to provide assistance and protection of civilians during times of war.	The ICRC, has been given a special role by the Geneva Conventions with respect to the visiting and monitoring of prisoners of war. 
noLabel	This stems in part from the nation's frontier history, where guns were integral to westward expansion, enabling settlers to guard themselves from Native Americans, animals and foreign armies, frontier citizens often assuming responsibility for self-protection.	The importance of guns also derives from the role of hunting in American culture, which remains popular as a sport in the country today . 
noLabel	Agricultural technologies such as nitrogen fertilizers, pesticides and new irrigation methods have dramatically reduced food shortages in modern times by boosting yields past previous constraints .	Mass production of goods in places such as rapidly industrializing China has made what were once considered luxuries, such as vehicles and computers, inexpensive and thus accessible to many who were otherwise too poor to afford them .
noLabel	In the United States, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission sued a private test preparation firm, Kaplan, for unfairly using credit histories to discriminate against African Americans in terms of hiring decisions .	According to one analysis, it is possible to imagine a democracy which meets the formal criteria (1 through 3) but which still favors wealthy candidates who are selected in free and fair elections .
noLabel	Restrictive legislation on birth control was continually employed by European governments throughout the period of mercantilism and formed the backbone of the populationist strategy of this era.	The mercantillists argued that a large population was a form of wealth, making it possible to create bigger markets and armies.
noLabel	The Oranienburg plant provided the uranium sheets and cubes for the Uranmaschine experiments conducted at the KWIP and the Versuchsstelle (testing station) of the Heereswaffenamt (Army Ordnance Office) in Gottow.	The G-1 experiment performed at the HWA testing station, under the direction of Kurt Diebner, had lattices of 6,800 uranium oxide cubes (about 25 tons), in the nuclear moderator paraffin . 
noLabel	" Has often stated that it is wrong public education receives $38 billion annually while the Pentagon receives $700 billion annually.	She also believes reforms like No Child Left Behind hurt the education system, and that free higher education and better primary education is what will improve school systems throughout the nation.
noLabel	In July 1887, a Scottish academic, Professor James Blyth, undertook wind power experiments that culminated in a UK patent in 1891 .	In the US, Charles F. Brush produced electricity using a wind powered machine, starting in the winter of 1887–1888, which powered his home and laboratory until about 1900.
noLabel	In Denmark, ENAR is represented by Bashy Quraishy, who is a former member of Socialistisk Folkeparti and is known for his apologetic attitude with regards to the 9/11 attacks and for referring to the focus on Islamic fundamentalism during the following investigations as "crusades".	The other representative for ENAR in Denmark is Mona Sheikh, who failed to gain a seat in Folketinget representing Det Radikale Venstre when it was discovered that she (even though she doesn't wear a headscarf) was a member of the Minhaj-ul-Quran network.
noLabel	Many proponents of alternative education, particularly unschooling, take issue with Article 26 where it stipulates that "Elementary education shall be compulsory."	In the philosophies of John Holt and others, compulsory education itself violates the right of a person to peacefully follow his or her own interests: .
noLabel	In 1958, the United States Air Force had considered a plan to drop nuclear bombs on China during a confrontation over Taiwan but it was overruled, previously secret documents showed after they were declassified due to the Freedom of Information Act in April 2008.	The plan included an initial plan to drop 10-15 kiloton bombs on airfields in Amoy (now called Xiamen) in the event of a Chinese blockade against Taiwan's Offshore Islands .
noLabel	While the console had a slow start, its port of the arcade game Space Invaders would become the first "killer app" and quadruple the console's sales .	Soon after, the Atari 2600 would quickly become the most popular of all the early consoles prior to the North American video game crash of 1983. 
noLabel	In political science, the use of the plurality voting system alongside multiple, single-winner constituencies to elect a multi-member body is often referred to as single-member district plurality or SMDP .	Plurality voting is also variously referred to as winner-takes-all or relative/simple majority voting; however, these terms can also refer to elections for multiple winners in a particular constituency using bloc voting.
noLabel	The Astana-Würth team could not start because, despite a ruling by the Court of Arbitration for Sport, five of its nine Tour riders were barred after being officially named in the Operacion Puerto affair.	With only four riders remaining (Alexander Vinokourov, Andrey Kashechkin, Carlos Barredo and Luis León Sanchez) the team didn't have the minimum number of riders demanded by the rules to enter . 
noLabel	During the legislative effort to enact the Civil Rights Act of 1964, "sex" was not among the categories the bill initially covered.	In the House of Representatives, Southern opponents of the legislation, led by Rep. Howard Smith of Virginia, proposed adding "sex" to the original list—race, color, religion, or national origin—in the hope that liberal support for that addition would make the entire bill unacceptable to the bill's more moderate supporters and lead to the bill's defeat.
noLabel	Many critics focus strictly on the BCS methodology itself, which employs subjective voting assessments, while others note the ability for undefeated teams to finish seasons without an opportunity to play the national championship game.	For example, in the last 6 seasons of Division I FBS football, there have been more undefeated non-BCS champions than undefeated BCS champions.
noLabel	In contrast to the static levels of Wolfenstein 3D, those in Doom are highly dynamic: platforms can lower and rise, floors can rise sequentially to form staircases, and bridges can rise and fall.	The lifelike environment was enhanced further by the stereo sound system, which made it possible to roughly determine the direction and distance of a sound effect.
noLabel	On 7 July 2007, Benedict XVI issued the motu proprio Summorum Pontificum, declaring that upon "the request of the faithful", celebration of Mass according to the Missal of 1962 (commonly known as the Tridentine Mass), was to be more easily permitted.	Stable groups who previously had to petition their bishop to have a Tridentine Mass may now merely request permission from their local priest .
noLabel	In 1953, the President of the United States, Dwight D. Eisenhower, proposed the creation of an international body to both regulate and promote the peaceful use of atomic power (nuclear power), in his Atoms for Peace address to the UN General Assembly .	In September 1954, the United States proposed to the General Assembly the creation of an international agency to take control of fissile material, which could be used either for nuclear power or for nuclear weapons.
noLabel	In 2010, 32000 people applied for asylum to Sweden, a 25% increase from 2009, the highest amount in Swedish history .	In 2009, Sweden had the fourth largest number of asylum applications in the EU and the largest number per capita after Cyprus and Malta .
noLabel	The Israeli army maintains that it pursues such military operations to prevent imminent attacks when it has no discernible means of making an arrest or foiling such attacks by other methods.	On December 14, 2006, the Supreme Court of Israel ruled that targeted killing is a legitimate form of self-defense against terrorists, and outlined several conditions for its use .
noLabel	He then argues that, in fact, punishment is found even in this type of system through subtle mechanisms of social behavior.	It should not surprise any students of Durkheim to see how he argues for a social/cultural rather than an individual/rational explanation for punishment and self-regulation: . 
noLabel	The "Second Idea", as Sakharov referred to it in his memoirs, was a previous proposal by Ginzburg in November 1948 to use lithium deuteride in the bomb, which would, in the course of being bombarded by neutrons, produce tritium and free deuterium .	In late 1953 physicist Viktor Davidenko achieved the first breakthrough, that of keeping the primary and secondary parts of the bombs in separate pieces ("staging").
noLabel	The national Capital city, Canberra in the Australian Capital Territory, has developed a tradition of the National Multicultural Festival, held over a week in February .	Additionally, Canberra has numerous other inter-cultural events, such as the Thai Food Festival held at Wat Dhammadharo, Canberra's Thai temple, on 2009-04-19.
noLabel	Acknowledgment of the fact that, for better or worse, video games are likely to remain a part of modern society has led to a brace of comparative studies between violent games and non-violent games .	As technology has advanced, such studies have adapted to include the effects of violent games and non-violent games in new media methods such as immersive virtual reality simulations . 
noLabel	Most of Sweden has a temperate climate, despite its northern latitude, with four distinct seasons and mild temperatures throughout the year.	The country can be divided into three types of climate; the southernmost part has an oceanic climate, the central part has a humid continental climate and the northernmost part has a subarctic climate. 
noLabel	The very general terms in which military missions are couched left specifics open to wide interpretation and prompted the criticism that the nation did not possess a military strategy.	In the 1976 National Defense Program Outline, the cabinet sought to define missions more specifically by setting guidelines for the nation's readiness, including specific criteria for the maintenance and operation of the SDF.
noLabel	Another factor that may have contributed to the trend was the The Equal Pay Act of 1963, which aimed at abolishing wage disparity based on sex.	Such legislation diminished sexual discrimination and encouraged more women to enter the labor market by receiving fair remuneration to help raising families and children. 
noLabel	The 1614 rules differed from practices of local assemblies, where each member had one vote and third estate membership was doubled.	For example, in the Dauphiné the provincial assembly agreed to double the number of members of the third estate, hold membership elections, and allow one vote per member, rather than one vote per estate . 
noLabel	As the first generation of law-enforced only children came of age for becoming parents themselves, one adult child was left with having to provide support for his or her two parents and four grandparents .	Called the "4-2-1 Problem", this leaves the older generations with increased chances of dependency on retirement funds or charity in order to receive support.
noLabel	In 1942, Jan Karski reported to the Polish, British and U.S. governments on the situation in Poland, especially the destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto and the Holocaust of the Jews.	He met with Polish politicians in exile including the prime minister, as well as members of political parties such as the PPS, SN, SP, SL, Jewish Bund and Poalei Zion.
noLabel	On January 4, 2007, US District Court Judge Jack B. Weinstein issued a temporary restraining order forbidding a number of activists and their organizations in the psychiatric survivors movement, including MindFreedom International and the Alliance for Human Research Protection from disseminating ostensibly leaked documents purporting to show that Eli Lilly and Company knowingly concealed information on potentially lethal side-effects of Zyprexa for years .	The "Zyprexa documents" had been sealed by an earlier court order in a mass tort case; they were widely disseminated after Alaska attorney James Gottstein issued a subpoena for them in an unrelated case.
noLabel	In the past, the decision about when to allow athletes to return to contact sports was frequently based on the grade of concussion.	However current research and recommendations by professional organizations such as the National Athletic Trainers Association recommend not using these grading systems for determination of severity of injury or for making return to play decisions.
noLabel	2004 saw the arrival of eight new countries into the EU, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia.	The government predicted that 15,000 new workers would arrive in the UK but, by 2006 around 430,000 had registered for work and this rose to 683,000 by 2007, 70% of which were from Poland.
noLabel	The study also found that students who took part in the abstinence-only programs were just as likely to use contraception when they did have sex as those who did not participate.	Abstinence-only education advocates claim the study was too narrow, began when abstinence-only curricula were in their infancy, and ignored other studies that have shown positive effects .
noLabel	The usual argument against deficit spending, dating to Adam Smith, is that households should not run deficits – one should have money before one spends it, from prudence – and that what is correct for a household is correct for a nation and its government.	A further argument is that debts must be repaid, and thus it is burdening future generations to run deficits today, for little or no gain. 
noLabel	It is also suspected that many of their raw materials originates from Uzbekistan, where children aged 10 are forced to work in the fields.	The activists were calling to ban the use of Uzbek cotton and implement a "track and trace" systems to guarantee an ethical responsible source of the material. 
noLabel	She has also been a visible figure in the national media, appearing on television shows, radio programs, and the documentary film Waiting for Superman.	In May 2011, Rhee spoke in favor of school choice alongside the Wisconsin Republican Governor Scott Walker at an event hosted by the American Federation for Children, a pro-school choice education organization founded and funded by Betsy DeVos . 
noLabel	Throughout the 19th century, well into the 20th, the "Orange Orders" in Canada attacked and tried to politically defeat the Irish Catholics .	The Ku Klux Klan spread in the mid-1920s from the U.S. to parts of Canada, especially Saskatchewan, where it helped topple the Liberal government.
noLabel	Brazil has one of the largest renewable energy programs in the world, involving production of ethanol fuel from sugar cane, and ethanol now provides 18 percent of the country's automotive fuel.	As a result of this, together with the exploitation of domestic deep water oil sources, Brazil, which years ago had to import a large share of the petroleum needed for domestic consumption, recently reached complete self-sufficiency in oil . 
noLabel	Durkheim touches on a point later made by democratic education writer George Dennison in The Lives of Children: much social regulation that exists in free society takes place in the course of maintaining our relationships with each other.	Our desire to cultivate friendships, engender respect, and maintain what Dennison terms ‘natural authority’ encourages us to act in socially acceptable ways (i.e.
noLabel	ATF has commissioned approximately 100 special agents and 25 industry operations investigators to the initiative, and is increasing its intelligence activities with other EPIC law enforcement partners stationed at the border, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and the Texas Department of Public Safety.	ATF also works closely with these agencies’ task forces which operate along the Southwest border, sharing intelligence, and conducting joint investigations.
noLabel	The 2011 Spanish protests, whose participants are sometimes referred to as the "indignados", are a series of ongoing anti-austerity demonstrations in Spain that rose to prominence beginning on 15 May 2011; thus, the movement is also sometimes referred to as the May 15 or M-15 movement as well.	It is a collection of several different instances of continuous demonstrations countrywide, with a common origin in internet social networks and the Democracia Real Ya web presence, along with 200 other small associations . 
noLabel	"There is no general provision in Georgian law for racist motivation to be considered an aggravating circumstance in prosecutions of ordinary offenses.	Certain crimes involving racist motivation are, however, defined as specific offenses in the Georgian Criminal Code of 1999, including murder motivated by racial, religious, national or ethnic intolerance (article 109); infliction of serious 
noLabel	In Britain the weight at which people considered themselves to be overweight was significantly higher in 2007 than in 1999 .	These changes are believed to be due to increasing rates of adiposity leading to increased acceptance of extra body fat as being normal . 
noLabel	If the New York law in fact prohibited "words" against the flag, Black wrote, the law would unquestionably be unconstitutional – so blatantly unconstitutional, in fact, that there would be no need for the Court to balance any purported legitimate state interests against the defendant's freedom of speech .	However, because Justice Black was satisfied that the defendant was convicted solely of burning the flag, and because burning the flag is "an integral part of conduct in violation of a valid criminal statute," he would affirm the defendant's conviction .
noLabel	Obama intervened in the troubled automotive industry in March 2009, renewing loans for General Motors and Chrysler to continue operations while reorganizing.	Over the following months the White House set terms for both firms' bankruptcies, including the sale of Chrysler to Italian automaker Fiat and a reorganization of GM giving the U.S. government a temporary 60 percent equity stake in the company, with the Canadian government shouldering a 12 percent stake .
noLabel	In a December 2005 Washington Post opinion column, and at the Save Darfur rally in April 2006, Obama called for more assertive action to oppose genocide in the Darfur region of Sudan .	He has divested $180,000 in personal holdings of Sudan-related stock, and has urged divestment from companies doing business in Iran .
noLabel	Two former schoolteachers, Tin Maung Oo and Ni Ni Mai, appeared in court after they spoke out against a pro-government rally in Paung Tal township, Bago division.	On 16 October at about 5&nbsp;am, a pro-government group were marching past the teachers house, shouting slogans denouncing the monk-led demonstrations and supporting the National Convention.
noLabel	The Committee has been central in developing the normative definition of key economic, social and cultural rights, interpreting the role of State Parties to the ICESCR, and monitoring protection and violation of the ICESCR rights.	The Committee issues guiding pronouncements in the form of general comments, and other human rights treaty bodies may also issue comments relevant to economic, social and cultural rights . 
noLabel	A government agency, on the other hand, would have the entire military of a nation to draw upon for security, whose chain of command is clearly defined.	Opponents would say that this is a false assertion: numerous books refer to poor organization between government departments (for example the Hurricane Katrina incident). 
noLabel	The scope of the new treaty did not extend to the Ryukyu Islands, but an appended minute made clear that in case of an armed attack on the islands, both governments would consult and take appropriate action.	Unlike the 1951 security pact, the new treaty provided for a ten-year term, after which it could be revoked upon one year's notice by either party. 
noLabel	The right to have arms in English history is believed to have been regarded as a long-established natural right in English law, auxiliary to the natural and legally defensible rights to life .	The English Bill of Rights emerged from a tempestuous period in English politics during which two issues were major sources of conflict: the authority of the King to govern without the consent of Parliament and the role of Catholics in a country that was becoming ever more Protestant.
noLabel	Sociocultural studies highlight the role of cultural factors in the incidence of anorexia nervosa in women, such as the promotion of thinness as the ideal female form in Western industrialized nations, particularly through the media.	A recent epidemiological study of 989,871 Swedish residents indicated that gender, ethnicity and socio-economic status were highly correlated with the chance of developing anorexia nervosa, and women with non-European parents were among the least likely to be diagnosed, while women in wealthy, ethnic Swedish families were most at risk . 
noLabel	This level places oil sands on par with other sources of U.S. crude imports, including crudes from Nigeria, Venezuela and some domestically produced oil, the report finds.	" According to Andrew J. Weaver's research, if Canada burns only the economically viable reserve of oil sands throughout more than a century, it is predicted that would raise the global mean temperature by . 
noLabel	"Obviously sun, wind, tides and waves cannot be controlled to provide directly either continuous base-load power, or peak-load power when it is needed,.." "In practical terms non-hydro renewables are therefore able to supply up to some 15–20% of the capacity of an electricity grid, though they cannot directly be applied as economic substitutes for most coal or nuclear power, however significant they become in particular areas with favourable conditions."	"If the fundamental opportunity of these renewables is their abundance and relatively widespread occurrence, the fundamental challenge, especially for electricity supply, is applying them to meet demand given their variable and diffuse nature.
noLabel	The court found that, "Under the circumstances, Johnson's burning of the flag constituted expressive conduct, permitting him to invoke the First Amendment..	Occurring as it did at the end of a demonstration coinciding with the Republican National Convention, the expressive, overtly political nature of the conduct was both intentional and overwhelmingly apparent."
noLabel	In the spring of 1794, both extremist enragés such as Hébert and moderate Montagnard indulgents such as Danton were charged with counter-revolutionary activities, tried and guillotined.	On 7 June Robespierre, who had previously condemned the Cult of Reason, advocated a new state religion and recommended the Convention acknowledge the existence of the "Supreme Being" .
noLabel	A representative of Facebook told CBS News that the block of the website in Pakistan was under investigation by the company .	The company released a statement on May 19, 2010: "While the content does not violate our terms, we do understand it may not be legal in some countries.
noLabel	After the Meiji restoration and the abolishment of the caste system, many craftsmen who previously had worked on decorating swords moved on to designing kiserus and buckles for tobacco pouches.	Though mass-production of cigarettes began in the late 19th century, it was not until after World War II that the kiseru went of out style and became an object of tradition and relative obscurity .
noLabel	In February 2005, the international community came together at the Paris High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness, hosted by the French government and organised by the OECD.	The role of aid in promoting development was attracting increasing public scrutiny in the run-up to the  in Gleneagles, Scotland, and the global campaigns such as . 
noLabel	Voucher privatization is a privatization method where citizens are given or can inexpensively buy a book of vouchers that represent potential shares in any state-owned company.	Voucher privatization has mainly been used in the early-to-mid 1990s in the transition economies of Central and Eastern Europe - countries such as Russia, Poland, Bulgaria, Slovenia and Czechoslovakia. 
noLabel	Early romantic accounts of crime/delinquency as a form of seduction or proto-political resistance to the powerlessness and dull monotony of working life are now being challenged by late-modern hybrid theories.	These theories examine the ways in which criminals are incorporated into consumerism's value-system and fantasies, as argued by Robert Reiner in his book Law and Order, yet initially excluded in their economic and social lives.
noLabel	Other states followed suit, and now the majority of the states run some type of lottery to raise funds for state operations.	This has brought about morally questionable issues, such as states' using marketing firms to increase their market share, or to develop new programs when old forms of gambling do not raise as much money. 
noLabel	The League's goals included disarmament, preventing war through collective security, settling disputes between countries through negotiation and diplomacy, and improving global welfare.	Enshrined in its charter was a mandate to promote many of the rights later included in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
noLabel	A form of press advertising is classified advertising, which allows private individuals or companies to purchase a small, narrowly targeted ad for a low fee advertising a product or service.	Another form of press advertising is the Display Ad, which is a larger ad (can include art) that typically run in an article section of a newspaper. 
noLabel	" Christians were singled out for persecution because of their own rejection of Roman pantheism and refusal to honor the emperor as a god .	In 311 AD, Roman Emperor Galerius issued a general edict of toleration of Christianity, in his own name and in those of Licinius and Constantine I (who converted to Christianity the following year) .
noLabel	" Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman Senator John Kerry (Democrat) of Massachusetts said "However illegally these documents came to light, they raise serious questions about the reality of America's policy toward Pakistan and Afghanistan.	Those policies are at a critical stage and these documents may very well underscore the stakes and make the calibrations needed to get the policy right more urgent.
noLabel	In the days following, hundreds of (and eventually more than a thousand) mirrors of the WikiLeaks site appeared, and the Anonymous group of Internet activists called on supporters to attack the websites of companies which opposed WikiLeaks, under the banner of Operation Payback, previously aimed at anti-piracy organisations .	AFP reported that attempts to shut down the wikileaks.org address had led to the site surviving via the so-called Streisand effect, whereby attempts to censor information online leads to it being replicated in many places . 
noLabel	In March 1998, student delegates at a summit sponsored by Florida's Office of Tobacco Control voted to change the theme of the campaign to "truth, a generation united against tobacco.	" In April 1998, Florida launched a $25 million advertising campaign that included 33 television commercials, seven billboards, eight print ads and four posters .
noLabel	The history of PRODESIS stretches back to 1996 when a mission of 4 consultants visited Mexico and carried out an area appraisal to prepare a proposal for a Euro 5 million project to be carried out between SEMARNAP and the EC (Teyssier, Capietto and de Agostini, 1996).	In late 1998 SEMARNAP responded to a set of key issues that had been raised by the EC Delegation in 1997, presented a reformulated proposal and requested that renewed consideration be given to the Project. 
noLabel	Writing in the New Statesman, Dawkins stated that Channel 4's correspondence in response to the documentary had been running at two to one in favour .	Journalists including Howard Jacobson had accused Dawkins of giving voice to extremists, a claim Dawkins responded to by noting that the National Association of Evangelicals has some 30 million members, and also that he had invited the main UK religious leaders to participate, but they all declined .
noLabel	" Iran has claimed that the military threat posed by Israel and the United States is forcing it to restrict the release of information on its nuclear program .	Gawdat Bahgat of the National Defense University speculates that Iran may have a lack of confidence in the international community which was reinforced when many nations, under pressure from the United States, rejected or withdrew from signed commercial deals with the Iranian nuclear authority . 
noLabel	Instead of simply bashing their way through levels, players were challenged to act in character by choosing dialog options appropriately, and by using the surrounding environment intelligently.	This produced an experience that was unique and tailored to each situation as opposed to one that repeated itself endlessly . 
noLabel	Some French critics argue that allowing Hollywood movies to compete against French films would be culturally destructive; hence free trade in culture must be limited, otherwise, the French language and the visibility of a French perspective on the world would be threatened.	Food imports competing with French farmers are restricted on the grounds that high food prices are necessary to sustain rural French culture. 
noLabel	"If gender is defined as the culturally established correlates of sex (whether in consequence of biology or learning) then gender display refers to conventionalized portrayals of those correlates.	" Gender displays can otherwise be defined as rituals of gender behavior, and they are used to help interpret social reality .
noLabel	To make the primary small enough to fit into the narrow part of the cone, its bulky insensitive high explosive charges must be replaced with more compact "non-insensitive" high explosives which are more hazardous to handle.	The higher yield of the W88, which is the last new warhead produced by the United States, thus comes at a price of higher warhead weight and higher workplace hazard .
noLabel	Civil liberties are rights and freedoms that provide an individual specific rights such as the freedom from slavery and forced labor, freedom from torture and death, the right to liberty and security, right to a fair trial, the right to defend one's self, the right to own and bear arms, the right to privacy, freedom of conscience, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly and association, and the right to marry and have a family.	Within the distinctions between civil liberties and other types of liberty, it is important to note the distinctions between positive rights and negative rights.
noLabel	After Grutter and Gratz, in November 2006, voters in the State of Michigan made affirmative action illegal by passing Proposal 2 (Michigan Civil Rights Initiative), a state-wide referendum amending the Michigan Constitution.	Proposal 2 bans public affirmative action programs that give preferential treatment to groups or individuals based on their race, gender, color, ethnicity or national origin for public employment, public education or public contracting purposes.
noLabel	Some of the economic experts had argued in June 2010, that the best option both for Greece and EU, would be to engineer an orderly default on Greece’s public debt, and by the same time force Athens to withdraw from the eurozone, with a reintroduction of its national currency the drachma at a debased rate.	The argument for the latter part of this radical approach, was that Greece also strongly needed to improve its competitiveness in order to reestablish positive growth rates, and a reintroduction of the old drachma would enable Greece to return using the devaluation tool as a mean for that .
noLabel	The number of losers —which may add up to the size and severity of poverty—can be unexpectedly large if the method and process of privatization and how it is implemented are seriously flawed (e.g.	lack of transparency leading to state-owned assets being appropriated at minuscule amounts by those with political connections, absence of regulatory institutions leading to transfer of monopoly rents from public to private sector, improper design and inadequate control of the privatization process leading to asset stripping .
noLabel	There have been a number of deaths attributed to PMA, a potent and highly neurotoxic hallucinogenic amphetamine, being sold as ecstasy .	PMA is unique in its ability to quickly elevate body temperature and heart rate at relatively low doses, especially in comparison to MDMA.
noLabel	Trade economist Paul Krugman estimates that trade liberalisation has had a measurable effect on the rising inequality in the United States.	He attributes this trend to increased trade with poor countries and the fragmentation of the means of production, resulting in low skilled jobs becoming more tradeable.
noLabel	Kennedy called the congressional leaders to the White House in late October, 1963 to line up the necessary votes in the House for passage .	The bill was reported out of the Judiciary Committee in November 1963, and referred to the Rules Committee, whose chairman, Howard W. Smith, a Democrat and avid segregationist from Virginia, indicated his intention to keep the bill bottled up indefinitely.
noLabel	Historically fireflood projects have not worked out well because of difficulty in controlling the flame front and a propensity to set the producing wells on fire.	However, some oil companies feel the THAI method will be more controllable and practical, and have the advantage of not requiring energy to create steam . 
noLabel	The Poverty and Environment Network (PEN) is an international research project and network launched by CIFOR in September 2004 and completed in 2010.	PEN still exists as a database containing survey data on more than 8,000 households in more than 40 study sites in 25 developing countries. 
noLabel	Two aspects of this are (1) obtaining the greatest psychological effect against Japan and (2) making the initial use sufficiently spectacular for the importance of the weapon to be internationally recognized when publicity on it is released.	Kyoto had the advantage of being an important center for military industry, as well an intellectual center and hence better able to appreciate the significance of the weapon.
noLabel	A 1995 U.S. Supreme Court ruling rendered the federal limits null and void, and in 2002 the Oregon Supreme Court upheld lower state court rulings striking down the remaining provisions of the law on procedural grounds.	Measure 48 of 1996 would have instructed the Legislature to enact term limits for Congressional races, but the measure did not pass. 
noLabel	In the end, though, a Wada ruling on nicotine would look like yet another win for the fiendish forces of big tobacco, who must come up with ever more wily ways of getting round advertising laws.	After all, what better way to push your nicotine laced product on impressionable youngsters than to have it officially outlawed as something that makes people better at sport? 
noLabel	Eric Kaufmann, author of Shall the Religious Inherit the Earth: Demography and Politics in the Twenty-First Century (2011), argues that a Muslim majority is extremely unlikely in Europe in the near or long-term.	He states "Even if higher Muslim fertility rates do not persist, Islam will make a significant imprint on European life—so saner Eurabian ideas should be publicly discussed.
noLabel	The Islamic Action Front (IAF), a Jordanian Islamist group, criticized Egypt for the blockade and accused it of "collaborating" with Israel and the United States.	"The Egyptian authorities are ..increasing the suffering of the Palestinians in Gaza by building the steel wall and closing the border crossings with Gaza," said Hamzah Mansour, a member of the Shura Council of the IAF . 
noLabel	The upper secondary vocational education system in Mexico includes over a dozen subsystems (administrative units within the Upper Secondary Education Undersecretariat of the Ministry of Public Education, responsible for vocational programmes) which differ from each other to varying degrees in content, administration, and target group.	The large number of school types and corresponding administrative units within the Ministry of Public Education makes the institutional landscape of vocational education and training complex by international standards. 
noLabel	Ancient Roman insulae in Rome and other imperial cities reached up to 10 and more stories, some with more than 200 stairs .	Several emperors, beginning with Augustus (r. 30&nbsp;BC-14&nbsp;AD), attempted to establish limits of 20–25&nbsp;m for multi-storey buildings, but met with only limited success .
noLabel	The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations lists the requirements of sustainable forest management as: extent of forest resources, biological diversity, forest health and vitality, productive functions of forest resources, protective functions of forest resources, socio-economic functions and a legal, policy and institutional framework .	Many aspects of the outline are currently not being met and will continue to have detrimental effects if not quickly addressed. 
noLabel	Reverse racism is a controversial term which refers to racial prejudice or discrimination directed against the traditionally dominant racial group in a society.	It is sometimes used as a pejorative description of systems which discriminate in favour of members of racial minorities, more formally known as reverse discrimination or affirmative action.
noLabel	In 1976, gambling was legalized in Atlantic City, New Jersey, and in 1990, it was legalized in Tunica, Mississippi; both of those cities have developed extensive casino and resort areas since then.	Since a favorable U.S. Supreme Court decision in 1987, many Native American tribes have built their own casinos on tribal lands as a way to provide revenue for the tribe.
noLabel	Egypt teaches knowledge about male and female reproductive systems, sexual organs, contraception and STDs in public schools at the second and third years of the middle-preparatory phase (when students are aged 12–14).	A coordinated program between UNDP, UNICEF, and the ministries of health and education promotes sexual education at a larger scale in rural areas and spreads awareness of the dangers of female genital cutting.
noLabel	In 2002, the group Citizens for a Canadian Republic was established to promote the abolition of the Canadian monarchy in favour of a republic, at approximately the same time The Globe and Mail newspaper began a campaign against the monarchy, with three republican journalists on staffMargaret Wente, Jeffrey Simpson, and Lawrence Martinthough the editorial board argued Canada could dispose of its monarchy without becoming a republic.	Tom Freda, chairman and co-founder of Citizens for a Canadian Republic, called for simply replacing the monarchy with the Governor General, saying that he's not in favour of destroying Canada's identity or cultural institutions: "All we're advocating is that the link to the monarchy, in our Constitution, be severed.
noLabel	In-situ plutonium production also contributes to the neutron chain reaction in other types of reactors after sufficient plutonium-239 has been produced, since plutonium-239 is also a fissile element which serves as fuel.	It is estimated that up to half of the power produced by a standard "non-breeder" reactor is produced by the fission of plutonium-239 produced in place, over the total life-cycle of a fuel load. 
noLabel	The Chou Dynasty (951-960) was marked by the emergence of two types of marriages, purchased and arranged, which focused on the Chinese woman’s fundamental duty to produce children .	Although the woman’s role varied slightly depending on the social status of the husband, typically her main duty was to provide a son in order to continue the family name .
noLabel	Teachers and administrators in the public school systems of the United States come in contact with a wide variety of sub-cultures and are at the forefront of the challenge of bringing diverse groups together within a larger American society.	Issues confronting teachers and administrators on a daily basis include student learning disabilities, student behavioral problems, child abuse, drug addiction, mental health, and poverty, most of which are handled differently within different cultures and communities. 
noLabel	Two days after the bombing of Nagasaki, the U.S. government released an official technical history of the Manhattan Project, authored by Princeton physicist Henry DeWolf Smyth, known colloquially as the Smyth Report.	The sanitized summary of the wartime effort focused primarily on the production facilities and scale of investment, written in part to justify the wartime expenditure to the American public. 
noLabel	There is some difference of opinion as to how revolutionary the events of 1688-89 actually were, and several commentators make the point that the provisions of the English Bill of Rights did not represent new laws, but rather stated existing rights.	Mark Thompson wrote that, apart from determining the succession, the English Bill of Rights did "little more than set forth certain points of existing laws and simply secured to Englishmen the rights of which they were already posessed [sic].
noLabel	Microsoft, the owner and developer of Windows and Microsoft Office, along with other major software companies, have long been proponents of this business model.	Although in August 2010, Microsoft interoperability general manager Jean Paoli said Microsoft "loves open source" and its anti-open source position was a mistake . 
noLabel	Following the debate, Paul was criticized by some political commentators for his refusal to yield in his opposition to the 2010 health insurance reform law ("Obamacare"), which prohibits insurers from denying coverage on the basis of a pre-existing condition, when it was pointed out that Paul's 2008 presidential campaign chair and friend had contracted a sudden severe illness necessitating a prolonged hospital stay before dying.	He had not had any medical insurance through his employer and had been unable to purchase insurance due to a pre-existing condition.
noLabel	These uses require far more energy density (the amount of energy stored in a given volume or weight) than current battery technology can deliver.	Liquid hydrocarbon fuel (such as gasoline/petrol and diesel), as well as alcohols (methanol, ethanol, and butanol) and lipids (straight vegetable oil, biodiesel) have much higher energy densities. 
noLabel	However, the 2005 vote of the law on colonialism voted by the UMP conservative parliamentary majority has lifted a debate, especially among historians, concerning the legitimacy and relevancy of such "memory laws."	Although a fair amount of historians is opposed to such laws, few advocate their repeal insofar as they estimate that once they have been voted, repealing them would be a greater evil. 
noLabel	However, European militaries continued to provide condoms to their members for disease protection, even in countries where they were illegal for the general population .	Through the 1920s, catchy names and slick packaging became an increasingly important marketing technique for many consumer items, including condoms and cigarettes .
noLabel	 Johnson, who wanted the bill passed as soon as possible, ensured that the bill would be quickly considered by the Senate.	Normally, the bill would have been referred to the Senate Judiciary Committee, chaired by Senator James O. Eastland, Democrat from Mississippi.
noLabel	To assess parents’ concern about their children’s media habits, Common Sense Media commissioned a poll, which found that “64 percent [of parents with children 2-17] believed that media products in general were inappropriate for their families.	It said that 81 percent expressed concern that the media in general were encouraging violent or antisocial behavior in children.” The polling firm, Penn, Schoen & Berland Associates, said that “only one out of five interviewed ‘fully trusted'’ the separate industry-controlled ratings systems for music, movies, video games and television.” .
noLabel	Furthermore, many Congressional Democrats took up the cause of the Central American refugees—due in large part to the lobbying and publicity efforts of Sanctuary members.	In 1990, the House and Senate approved a bill granting temporary protected status (TPS) to Central Americans in need of safe haven, but not until the 1997 Nicaraguan Adjustment and Central American Relief Act did Congress allow fleeing Central Americans to apply for permanent residence .
noLabel	School lunch is free for all students in Sweden, and usually includes one or two different kinds of hot meals, a vegetarian meal, salad bar, fruit, bread, milk and water.	Some schools, especially kindergartens and middle schools, even serve breakfast for free to those who want to eat before school starts. 
noLabel	Population-level surveys based on reports from victims provide the most accurate estimates of the prevalence of intimate partner violence and sexual violence in non-conflict settings.	A study conducted by WHO in 10 mainly developing countries found that, among women aged 15 to 49 years, between 15% (Japan) and 70% (Ethiopia and Peru) of women reported physical and/or sexual violence by an intimate partner. 
noLabel	The Sisters of Mercy was founded by Catherine McAuley in Dublin, Ireland in 1831, and her nuns went on to establish hospitals and schools across the world .	The Little Sisters of the Poor was founded in the mid-19th century by Saint Jeanne Jugan near Rennes, France, to care for the many impoverished elderly who lined the streets of French towns and cities .
noLabel	This is a relatively immature market, but it has shown a lot of promise as advertisers are able to take advantage of the demographic information the user has provided to the social networking site.	Friendertising is a more precise advertising term in which people are able to direct advertisements toward others directly using social network service. 
noLabel	Consequently, counting on the spontaneous innovation and adoption of new agricultural technologies implies accepting an increase in clearing while forest resources are abundant, and waiting until this resource is almost depleted before farmers attempt to remedy the problem!	A certain number of macro tools must therefore be implemented, for example management of the industry, taxation applied to the agricultural sector, or the creation of an area network with agencies responsible for disseminating technologies among their potential users. 
noLabel	Aristotle contrasted rule by the many (democracy/polity), with rule by the few (oligarchy/aristocracy), and with rule by a single person (tyranny or today autocracy/monarchy).	He also thought that there was a good and a bad variant of each system (he considered democracy to be the degenerate counterpart to polity) . 
noLabel	Teller pushed the notion further, and used the results of the boosted-fission "George" test (a boosted-fission device using a small amount of fusion fuel to boost the yield of a fission bomb) to confirm the fusion of heavy hydrogen elements before preparing for their first true multi-stage, Teller-Ulam hydrogen bomb test.	Many scientists initially against the weapon, such as Oppenheimer and Bethe, changed their previous opinions, seeing the development as being unstoppable. 
noLabel	The Israeli Foreign Ministry argued that the flotilla's interception was lawful, as Israel had publicly declared its blockade, and had given the ships prior notification, and that activists had made it clear by written and oral statements that they intended to violate the blockade.	It further argued that international law allowed a state to enforce a naval blockade in international waters, so long as the blockade did not impede access to the ports or coasts of neutral states . 
noLabel	In 1950 Jacob Viner showed that a trading bloc mutually lowering tariffs would produce gains not merely on the demand side but also on the supply side.	This was called trade creation, the benefits to the supply side as a whole accrue as resources are reallocated towards firms producing at the highest comparative advantage (among the partners) in each country.
noLabel	The court first addressed the VSDA's argument that the entire Act should be invalidated based on the defendant's concession on appeal that the definition of "violent video game" in the statute is unconstitutionally broad.	However, the statute has a severability clause so the court runs through the test for severability set forth in Hotel Employees & Rest.
noLabel	Usually when economists use the term "crowding out" they are referring to the government spending using up financial and other resources that would otherwise be used by private enterprise.	However, some commentators use "crowding out" to refer to government providing a service or good that would otherwise be a business opportunity for private industry.
noLabel	Decolonization in the 1960s triggered large refugee movements in Africa, creating a massive challenge that would transform UNHCR; unlike the refugee crises in Europe, there were no durable solutions in Africa and many refugees who fled one country only found instability in their new country of asylum.	By the end of the decade, two thirds of UNCHR's budget was focused on operations in Africa and in just one decade, the organization's focus had shifted from an almost exclusive focus on Europe . 
noLabel	Through the early twentieth century, it was common for fights to have unlimited rounds, ending only when one fighter quit, benefiting high-energy fighters like Jack Dempsey.	Fifteen rounds remained the internationally recognized limit for championship fights for most of the twentieth century until the early 1980s, when the death of boxer Duk Koo Kim reduced the limit to twelve. 
noLabel	This mandates that all schools and libraries receiving federal aid for internet connections install a "technology protection measure" (filter) on all computers, whether used by children or adults.	There are some states that have passed laws mandating censorship in schools, universities, and libraries even if they are not receiving government aid that would fund censorship in these institutions.
noLabel	Index on Censorship works internationally to commission new work, not only articles for print and online, but also new photography, film & video, visual arts and performance.	Recent examples include an exhibition of photostories produced by women in Iraq, Open Shutters; and programme involving artists from refugee and migrant communities in UK, linking with artists from their country of origin, imagine art after, exhibited at Tate Britain in 2007. 
noLabel	The term became prominent in the United States following the September 11, 2001 attacks; it had been used only in limited policy circles prior to these attacks.	The phrase "security of the American homeland" appears in the 1998 report  by Ashton B. Carter, John M. Deutch, and Philip D. Zelikow. 
noLabel	Revolving door is a term used to describe the cycling of former federal employees into jobs as lobbyists while former K Street employees are pulled up into government positions .	Government officials can only work certain terms in their positions, for example senators, and afterwards they form valuable connections that could help influence future law making .
noLabel	was the primary vehicle for proposals to return black Americans to greater freedom and equality in Africa, and in 1821 the A.C.S.	established the colony of Liberia, assisting thousands of former African-American slaves and free black people (with legislated limits) to move there from the United States.
noLabel	The recommendations included a reform giving school principals the right to fire bad teachers and reward good ones with higher pay.	These moves have been blocked by Israel's teachers' unions, which have paralyzed schools with a series of long strikes, mostly blocking the proposed reforms .
noLabel	Finally, Hamilton expressed the fear that protecting specific rights might imply that any unmentioned rights would not be protected: I go further, and affirm that bills of rights, in the sense and in the extent in which they are contended for, are not only unnecessary in the proposed constitution, but would even be dangerous.	They would contain various exceptions to powers which are not granted; and on this very account, would afford a colorable pretext to claim more than were granted.
noLabel	As such, the monarch is the employer of all government staff (including the viceroys, judges, members of the New Zealand Defence Force, police officers, and parliamentarians), the guardian of foster children (Crown wards), as well as the owner of all state lands (Crown land), buildings and equipment (Crown held property), state owned companies (Crown entities), and the copyright for all government publications (Crown copyright).	This is all in his or her position as sovereign, and not as an individual; all such property is held by the Crown in perpetuity and cannot be sold by the sovereign without the proper advice and consent of his or her ministers. 
noLabel	The four resolutions dealt with issues such as offshore drilling, an Arctic national wildlife refuge, low-income energy assistance, and environmental funding .	McCain's measures to lower auto emissions include higher fines for not complying with CAFE standards, calling for a level playing field for all alcohol-based biofuels, issuing a Clean Car Challenge to automakers (a US$5,000 dollar tax credit for each and every customer who buys a zero-emissions car) and awarding a substantial prize to the auto company that develops a next-generation car battery .
noLabel	Similarly, worldwide average wheat yields have increased from less than 1 t/ha in 1900 to more than 2.5 t/ha in 1990.	South American average wheat yields are around 2 t/ha, African under 1 t/ha, Egypt and Arabia up to 3.5 to 4 t/ha with irrigation.
noLabel	Research carried out in the 1990s by David Crystal (Honorary Professor of Linguistics at the University of Wales, Bangor) suggested that at that time, on average, one language was falling into disuse every two weeks.	He calculated that if that rate of the language death were to continue, then by the year 2100 more than 90% of the languages currently spoken in the world will have gone extinct . 
noLabel	The FTI is working towards national accreditation so that it may offer associate and bachelor degrees that integrate academics with a more traditional apprentice programs.	The IUPAT has joined forces with the Professional Decorative Painters Association (PDPA) to build educational standards using a model of apprenticeship created by the PDPA.
noLabel	At the forefront of challenges to the code was director Otto Preminger, whose films violated the code repeatedly in the 1950s.	His 1953 film The Moon is Blue, about a young woman who tries to play two suitors off against each other by claiming that she plans to keep her virginity until marriage, was the first film to use the words "virgin", "seduce" and "mistress", and it was released without a certificate of approval.
noLabel	The most common shape is the parejo, sometimes referred to as simply "coronas", which have traditionally been the benchmark against which all other cigar formats are measured.	They have a cylindrical body, straight sides, one end open, and a round tobacco-leaf "cap" on the other end which must be sliced off, have a V-shaped notch made in it with a special cutter, or punched through before smoking. 
noLabel	When the United States intelligence community discovered the purpose of the Dimona plant in the early 1960s, it demanded that Israel agree to international inspections.	Israel agreed, but on a condition that U.S., rather than IAEA, inspectors were used, and that Israel would receive advanced notice of all inspections. 
noLabel	In December 2003, Libya announced that it had agreed to eliminate all its WMD programs, and permitted U.S. and British teams (as well as IAEA inspectors) into the country to assist this process and verify its completion.	The nuclear weapons designs, gas centrifuges for uranium enrichment, and other equipment—including prototypes for improved SCUD ballistic missiles—were removed from Libya by the United States.
noLabel	In Malaysia's constitutional monarchy, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (The Supreme Lord of the Federation) is de facto rotated every five years among the nine Rulers of the Malay states of Malaysia (those nine of the thirteen states of Malaysia that have hereditary royal rulers), elected by Majlis Raja-Raja (Conference of Rulers).	Under Brunei Darussalam's 1959 constitution, His Majesty Paduka Seri Baginda, Sultan Haji Hassanal Bolkiah Mu'izzaddin Waddaulah is the head of state with full executive authority, including emergency powers, since 1962.
noLabel	More generally, a free speech fight is any incident in which a group is involved in a conflict over its speech.	For instance, the Free Speech Movement, which began with a conflict on the Berkeley Campus in California in the 1960s, was a "free speech fight".
noLabel	In the United States, the corporation has emerged as an association of owners, known as stockholders, who form a business enterprise governed by a complex set of rules and customs.	Brought on by the process of mass production, corporations, such as General Electric, have been instrumental in shaping the United States.
noLabel	The division of beliefs may be attributable to the fact that Republicans are more likely to own guns, according to General Social Surveys conducted during the last 35 years.	The graphs, below, show that gun ownership has generally declined; however, Republicans&nbsp;— especially men&nbsp;— are far more likely to own guns . 
noLabel	In Canada, advocating genocide or inciting hatred against any 'identifiable group' is an indictable offence under the Criminal Code of Canada with maximum prison terms of two to fourteen years.	An 'identifiable group' is defined as 'any section of the public distinguished by colour, race, religion, ethnic origin or sexual orientation.'
noLabel	Their pioneering use of water-proof hydraulic mortar and particularly Roman concrete allowed for much larger dam structures than previously built, such as the Lake Homs Dam, possibly the largest water barrier to that date, and the Harbaqa Dam, both in Roman Syria.	The highest Roman dam was the Subiaco Dam near Rome; its record height of remained unsurpassed until its accidental destruction in 1305 . 
noLabel	In addition, some historians contend that religious organizations figure prominently in the broader histories of many sciences, with many of the scientific minds until the professionalization of scientific enterprise (in the 19th century) being clergy and other religious thinkers .	Some historians contend that many scientific developments, such as Kepler's laws and the 19th century reformulation of physics in terms of energy, were explicitly driven by religious ideas.
noLabel	In the school prayer cases of the early 1960s, (Engel v. Vitale and Abington School District v. Schempp), aid seemed irrelevant; the Court ruled on the basis that a legitimate action both served a secular purpose and did not primarily assist religion.	In Walz v. Tax Commission, the Court ruled that a legitimate action could not entangle government with religion; in Lemon v. Kurtzman, these points were combined, declaring that an action was not establishment if . 
noLabel	Skoien was convicted and sentenced to two years in prison for the gun violation and likely will be subject to a lifetime ban on gun ownership .	Pro-gun rights editorials have sharply criticized this ruling as going too far with the enactment of a lifetime gun ban, while editorials favoring gun regulations have praised the ruling as "a bucket of cold water thrown on the 'gun rights' celebration" . 
noLabel	The number of adherents to these religions can be overlaid in percentage due to the fact that mostly Chinese consider themselves both Buddhist and Taoist .	However, it was difficult to estimate accurately the number of Buddhists because they did not have congregational memberships and often did not participate in public ceremonies . 
noLabel	Historians estimate that fewer than 1 million immigrants – perhaps as few as 400,000 – crossed the Atlantic during the 17th and 18th centuries .	Relatively few 18th-century immigrants came from England: only 80,000 between 1700 and 1775, compared to 350,000 during the 17th century .
noLabel	During and after the Constitution ratification process, Anti-Federalists and state legislatures expressed concern that the new Constitution placed too much emphasis on the power of the federal government.	The drafting and eventual adoption of the Bill of Rights, including the First Amendment, was, in large part, a result of these concerns, as the Bill of Rights limited the power of the federal government.
noLabel	The U.S. currently produces about 40% of the oil that it consumes; its imports have exceeded domestic production since the early 1990s.	Since the U.S.'s oil consumption continues to rise, and its oil production continues to fall, this ratio may continue to decline .
noLabel	On April 9, 2011 in Alphen Aan Den Rijn, The Netherlands, 24-year-old Tristan van der Vlis opened fire in a shopping mall, releasing more than a hundred bullets with a semi-automatic rifle and a handgun, killing 6 people and wounding 17 others, after which he also killed himself .	A fair amount of attention was given to the fact that Van Der Vlis had been playing Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 and to the alleged similarities between the events in Alphen a/d Rijn and the controversial "No Russian" mission in the game (also known as the 'Airport Massacre') where the player can choose to (or choose not to) partake in the killing of a large group of innocent people inside an airport terminal .
noLabel	When James I of England, a staunch anti-smoker and the author of a A Counterblaste to Tobacco, tried to curb the new trend by enforcing a whopping 4000% tax increase on tobacco in 1604, it proved a failure, as London had some 7,000 tobacco sellers by the early 17th century.	Later, scrupulous rulers would realise the futility of smoking bans and instead turned tobacco trade and cultivation into lucrative government monopolies . 
noLabel	A meta-analysis of the African randomised controlled trials found that the risk in circumcised males was 0.44 times that in uncircumcised males, and that 72 circumcisions would need to be performed to prevent one HIV infection.	The authors also stated that using circumcision as a means to reduce HIV infection would, on a national level, require consistently safe sexual practices to maintain the protective benefit . 
noLabel	The chief economist of the IMF, Dr. Olivier Blanchard, stated that the percentage of workers laid off for long stints has been rising with each downturn for decades but the figures have surged this time.	"Long-term unemployment is alarmingly high: in the US, half the unemployed have been out of work for over six months, something we have not seen since the Great Depression."
noLabel	Typically Christmas or Summer holidays in Australia last approximately six weeks, usually from mid-December (depending on school year, see below) to late January.	This is significantly shorter than the North American Summer vacation, but Australian schools also break for two weeks at Easter, and in June and September, giving students and teachers a total of twelve weeks of annual holidays.
noLabel	A dam is a barrier across flowing water that obstructs, directs or slows down the flow, often creating a reservoir, lake or impoundments.	Most dams have a section called a spillway or weir over which, or through which, water flows, either intermittently or continuously, and some have hydroelectric power generation systems installed. 
noLabel	The San building is an outbuilding, near the primary classrooms; its name derives from the fact that it was originally built as a sanatorium.	When there proved to be insufficient demand for a separate sanatorium, it was given over to accommodation for the youngest children and their houseparent.
noLabel	Reasons for this include the challenge and massive expense of creating consoles that are graphically superior to the current generation, with Sony and Microsoft still looking to recoup development costs on its current consoles and the failure for content-creation tools to keep up with the increased demands placed upon the people creating the resources such as art for the games on those consoles.	The focus for new technologies is likely to shift onto motion-based consoles and peripherals, such as Nintendo Wii, Microsoft's Kinect, and Sony's PlayStation Move. 
noLabel	|-- Service Category: Those who are considered Group ‘A’/Class I officers of the All India Central and State Services (Direct Recruits) or those who are considered Group 'B'/ Class II officers of The Central and State Services (Direct Recruitment) or those who are employees in the Public Sector.	Those who have parent(s) that are Class I or Class II officers, or both parents are Class I or Class II officers but one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation.
noLabel	Some recent examples of Mexico’s paramilitary abuses include the sexual assault and rape of dozens of female detainees by police in San Salvador Atenco, and the disappearances of dozens of teachers in the rebellious state of Oaxaca in 2006, as well as the killings of seven innocent bystanders, including the American journalist Brad Will by off-duty policemen .	Almost half of Mexican police officers examined in 2008 have failed background and security tests, a figure that rises to nearly 9 of 10 policemen in the border state of Baja California. 
noLabel	Sweden is a constitutional monarchy, in which King Carl XVI Gustaf is head of state, but royal power has long been limited to official and ceremonial functions .	The Economist Intelligence Unit, while acknowledging that democracy is difficult to measure, listed Sweden in fourth place in 2010 in its index of democracy assessing 167 countries. 
noLabel	Reviewing this book in the libertarian magazine Reason, Michael W. Lynch sums up some of their conclusions as, "Blacks and whites live, learn, work, pray, play, and entertain separately."	He cites Stephan and Abigail Themstrom's America in Black and White as making the case to the contrary, gives anecdotal evidence on both sides of the question, and writes: . 
noLabel	This questioning of the monarchy's role in Canadian identity arose as a part of wider cultural changes that followed the evolution of the British Empire into the Commonwealth of Nations, the rise of anti-establishmentism, the creation of multiculturalism as an official policy in Canada, and the blossoming of Quebec separatism; the latter becoming the major impetus of political controversy around the Crown.	 Quebec nationalists agitated for an independent Quebec republicsuch as the Marxist form desired by the Front de libération du Québecand the monarchy was targeted as a symbol of anti-Anglophone demonstration, notably when assassination threats were in 1964 made against Queen Elizabeth II and Quebecers turned their backs on her procession when she toured Quebec City that year.
noLabel	However, the strongest case for the French Academies being part of the public sphere comes the concours académiques (roughly translated as academic contests) they sponsored throughout France.	As Jeremy L. Caradonna argues in a recent article in the Annales, "Prendre part au siècle des Lumières: Le concours académique et la culture intellectuelle au XVIIIe siècle", these academic contests were perhaps the most public of any institution during the Enlightenment. 
noLabel	Songs about teenage pregnancy include downbeat tales of abuse ("Brenda's Got a Baby"), poverty ("In The Ghetto") and back-alley abortion ("Sally's Pigeons"), as well as upbeat and defiant tunes such as "Papa Don't Preach".	American pop singer Fantasia Barrino, who was 17 when she gave birth to her daughter, released a controversial song about single motherhood titled "Baby Mama", describing the difficulty of raising a child alone with limited financial and family support.
noLabel	Answers provided by Iran regarding the past P-1 and P-2 centrifuge programs were found to be consistent with the IAEA's own findings.	However, Iran has ignored the demands of the UN Security council, and has continued to enrich uranium in the past year.
noLabel	Spain has a comparatively low debt among advanced economies, at only 53% of GDP in 2010, more than 20 points less than Germany, France or the US, and more than 60 points less than Italy, Ireland or Greece, and according to Standard & Poor's it does not risk a default .	Spain and Italy are far larger and more central economies than Greece; both countries have most of their debt controlled internally, and are in a better fiscal situation than Greece and Portugal, making a default unlikely unless the situation gets far more severe .
noLabel	As the United States dropped its atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, 1.6&nbsp;million Soviet troops launched a surprise attack on the Japanese forces occupying eastern Asia.	"The Soviet entry into the war played a much greater role than the atomic bombs in inducing Japan to surrender because it dashed any hope that Japan could terminate the war through Moscow's mediation", said Japanese historian Tsuyoshi Hasegawa, whose recently published Racing the Enemy: Stalin, Truman, and the Surrender of Japan is based on recently declassified Soviet archives as well as U.S. and Japanese documents .
noLabel	A color-coded politics, perfected by the late GOP operative Lee Atwater, allowed taxes, big government and welfare to become proxies for the N-word.	This led to the realignment of Dixie, with the Republican party controlling the former confederate states, and blacks eventually shifting their allegiance nearly exclusively to the Democrats.Moderate whites fled the party, as well.
noLabel	On December 17, 1981 James L. Dozier, an American general and the deputy commander of NATO's South European forces based in Verona, was kidnapped by Red Brigades.	He was freed in Padua on January 28, 1982 by the Nucleo Operativo Centrale di Sicurezza (NOCS), an Italian police anti-terrorist task force .
noLabel	The fallout spread traces of radioactive material as far as Australia, India and Japan, and even the United States and parts of Europe.	Though organized as a secret test, Castle Bravo quickly became an international incident, prompting calls for a ban on the atmospheric testing of thermonuclear devices . 
noLabel	This may occur in a society facing periods of political, economic or social turmoil or transition, such as a change of government or a period of rapid economic development, particularly if the society lacks strong and established institutions and the rule of law.	The dissolution of the Soviet Union and the Revolutions of 1989 in Eastern Europe that saw the downfall of the Communist Bloc created a breeding ground for organized criminal organizations. 
noLabel	When asked if girls and women really wanted casual sex as much as men did, Dr. Drew Pinsky said he had spoken to them "by the thousands" and that they absolutely did not .	The only reason they engaged in it, he said, was because they thought it was what they need to do in order to get the guy.
noLabel	Illegal anabolic steroids are sometimes sold at gyms, competitions, and through the mail, but may also be obtained through pharmacists, veterinarians, and physicians .	In addition, a significant number of counterfeit products are sold as anabolic steroids, particularly via mail order from websites posing as overseas pharmacies.
noLabel	Real-time strategy: Herzog Zwei (1989) is considered to be the first real-time strategy game, predating the genre-popularizing Dune II; unlike its 1988 predecessor (Herzog), it features outposts that can be used to gain additional revenue; making it a strategic game as well as a tactical one .	It is the earliest example of a game with a feature set that falls under the contemporary definition of modern RTS . 
noLabel	Allied health professions such as physiotherapy, speech and language therapy, cognitive rehabilitation therapy, and occupational therapy will be essential to assess function and design the rehabilitation activities for each patient.	Treatment of neuropsychiatric symptoms such as emotional distress and clinical depression may involve mental health professionals such as therapists, psychologists, and psychiatrists, while neuropsychologists can help to evaluate and manage cognitive deficits . 
noLabel	According to The New York Times, legal experts questioned whether the US government was "flouting the intent" of the Federal National Environmental Policy Act which "[was] meant to ensure an impartial environmental analysis of major projects.	" The report prompted 14 senators and congressmen to ask the State Department inspector general on October 26, 2011 "to investigate whether conflicts of interest tainted the process" for reviewing environmental impact . 
noLabel	Children as well as caregivers attended literacy skill building workshops where instructional sessions were tailored towards both children and parents, as well as include a collaborative component.	Based on the analysis of pre-test and post-test data collected during the study, children demonstrated significant improvements in developing their literacy skills (Graham, 2011). 
noLabel	Many critics of the Bowl Championship Series favor a larger championship tournament with eight to sixteen teams, similar to that administered by the NCAA for its Division I Football Championship Subdivision (FCS), Division II, and Division III football championships.	Others favor adopting the incremental step of adding a single post-bowl championship game between the winners of two BCS games among the top four ranked teams in the BCS standings, the so-called "plus one" option.
noLabel	Paul heard him out and said merely, "Yes, pray for me; because of my weaknesses, the Church is badly governed" .	On 23 June 1978, weeks before his death, in an address to the College of Cardinals, Paul VI reaffirmed his Humanae Vitae: "following the confirmations of serious science", and which sought to affirm the principle of respect for the laws of nature and of "a conscious and ethically responsible paternity" .
noLabel	Crime statistics show that in 1999 the United States African Americans were far more likely to be arrested for drug crimes, and received much stiffer penalties and sentences than non-minorities .	Those same statistics also show that such events were far more likely to take place in areas with high minority crime: low income housing neighborhoods, city projects etc. 
noLabel	Freedom of religion in Canada is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.	The Canadian Human Rights Act allows an exception to freedom of religion with respect to religious dress, such as a Sikh turban, when there is a bona fide occupational requirement, such as a workplace requiring a hard hat .
noLabel	In practice the immigration officer is required to conduct an in-depth interview, seek corroborative evidence from other sources and present a compelling case to a Chief Immigration Officer before refusing the person .	The work of a port based immigration officer is to sift arriving passengers to detect those whose accounts of their intentions give some cause for concern.
noLabel	The PHR report further claimed that the Palestinian health system "collapsed" during the operation and failed to provide adequate medical care for the wounded.	The WHO report, however, noted that there was no shortage in medicine or medical supplies and that hospitals were never more than 75% full . 
noLabel	Care work, in that it is disproportionally done by women and is also often unpaid, highlights the importance of the larger issue of considering gender in economic policy.	As a result, many economists argue that gender analysis should be an essential part in the consideration of any economic policy .
noLabel	The current participants in the ARF are as follows: all the ASEAN members, Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, the People's Republic of China, the European Union, India, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Mongolia, New Zealand, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Russia, East Timor, United States and Sri Lanka .	The Republic of China (also known as Taiwan) has been excluded since the establishment of the ARF, and issues regarding the Taiwan Strait are neither discussed at the ARF meetings nor stated in the ARF Chairman's Statements.
noLabel	For the foundation, concern over the flow of information goes beyond the desire to protect democratic transparency, freedom of speech or the public’s access to the airwaves.	Although it supports these causes, the foundation instead situates the battle of the mind at the center of its political agenda.
noLabel	Evidence within the documents suggest that the U.S. military has been paying Afghan radio and print media to run favorable stories, with two prominent examples being Radio Ghaznawiyaan and Wakht News Agency.	One document refers to supplying pre-made content to a radio station, describing that content as Psychological Operations/Psychological Warfare (PSYOP) material .
noLabel	In terms of nuclear power, Forbes magazine, in the September 1975 issue, reported that "the anti-nuclear coalition has been remarkably successful .. [and] has certainly slowed the expansion of nuclear power.	" California has banned the approval of new nuclear reactors since the late 1970s because of concerns over waste disposal, and some other U.S. states have a moratorium on construction of nuclear power plants .
noLabel	Bayle was repelled by the use of scripture to justify coercion and violence: "One must transcribe almost the whole New Testament to collect all the Proofs it affords us of that Gentleness and Long-suffering, which constitute the distinguishing and essential Character of the Gospel."	He did not regard toleration as a danger to the state, but to the contrary: "If the Multiplicity of Religions prejudices the State, it proceeds from their not bearing with one another but on the contrary endeavoring each to crush and destroy the other by methods of Persecution.
noLabel	The term diversity has evolved to include concepts focusing on organizational culture and the intersections of power, structure, and communication all of which may contribute to diversity initiatives or potentially impede them.	Diversity initiatives are typically part of a more human resources management approach which not only seeks employee input but also values it; differences are recognized as a uniting component rather than a separating one .
noLabel	Falling technology prices and the rising costs of fossil fuels are making photovoltaic (PV) power plants increasingly attractive for large investors .	As of December 2011, the largest photovoltaic (PV) power plants in the world are the Golmud Solar Park (China, 200 MW), Sarnia Photovoltaic Power Plant (Canada, 97 MW), Montalto di Castro Photovoltaic Power Station (Italy, 84.2 MW), Finsterwalde Solar Park (Germany, 80.7 MW), Okhotnykovo Solar Park (Ukraine, 80&nbsp;MW), Lieberose Photovoltaic Park (Germany, 71.8&nbsp;MW), Rovigo Photovoltaic Power Plant (Italy, 70 MW), Olmedilla Photovoltaic Park (Spain, 60&nbsp;MW), and the Strasskirchen Solar Park (Germany, 54&nbsp;MW) . 
noLabel	The loi sur la liberté de la presse of 29 July 1881 was passed under the French Third Republic in 1881 by the then-dominant Opportunist Republicans who sought to liberalise the press and promote free public discussion.	The new law swept away a swathe of earlier statutes, stating at the outset the principle that "Printing and publication are free". 
noLabel	Observers have found it to be an extreme measure that an asylum seeker’s application can be summarily denied if the applicant fails to apply within 24 hours of entering the country .	The 24 hour deadline is arguably too difficult to meet in practice, given that many asylum seekers are being detained at the borders for three days upon arrival – with no knowledge of the requirement and no access to legal representation. 
noLabel	At the time of the visit in 2009 of Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, and his wife, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, self-described monarchist Andrew Coyne characterized loyalty to Canada's monarchy as being "the obsession of a radical fringe group dismissively referred to as 'monarchists'."	In the same article, he portrayed Canada as an "ancient kingdom" having had "nine French and nine English" kings and queens, argued that the debate was futile because the monarchy was here to stay given all the references to the "Queen" throughout the constitution, but then also called for importing "not just a King of Canada, but a Canadian King" that would reside permanently in Canada .
noLabel	One study found that the improved survival could be explained by the more aggressive treatment obese people receive after a cardiac event .	Another found that if one takes into account chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in those with PAD the benefit of obesity no longer exists .
noLabel	Later, at the 2007 Bali UNFCCC meeting (COP-13), an agreement was reached on “the urgent need to take further meaningful action to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation”.	The deadline for reaching an agreement on the specifics of an international REDD mechanism, at least as regards to its being implemented in the short and medium term, was set to be the 15th Conference of the Parties to the UNFCCC (COP-15), which was held in Copenhagen in December 2009 .
noLabel	The highest percentage of foreign born people in the United States was found in this period, with the peak in 1890 at 14.7%.	During this time, the lower costs of Atlantic Ocean travel in time and fare made it more advantageous for immigrants to move to the U.S. than in years prior.
noLabel	The Grand Theft Auto series may be divided into canons, based on the inclusion of a numbering after the recognisable title name (e.g.	Grand Theft Auto III) after the original Grand Theft Autos release, and to a certain extent, the type of graphics engine used.
noLabel	The rate of obesity among children and adolescents in the United States has nearly tripled between the early 1980s and 2000.	It has however not changed significantly between 2000 and 2006 with the most recent statistics showing a level just over 17 percent .
noLabel	Holocaust denial is explicitly or implicitly illegal in 17 countries: Austria, Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, and Switzerland .	The European Union's Framework decision on Racism and Xenophobia states that denying or grossly trivialising "crimes of genocide" should be made "punishable in all EU Member States" .
noLabel	Research has focused on whether the gangs have formal structures, clear hierarchies and leadership in comparison with adult groups, and whether they are rational in pursuit of their goals, though positions on structures, hierarchies and defined roles are conflicting.	Some studied street gangs involved in drug dealing - finding that their structure and behaviour had a degree of organisational rationality .
noLabel	In 2012, Swart & Weaver analyzed the potential impact of extracting and burning all of the world's oil, gas, and coal deposits.	They concluded that they would yield a mean total of 12.6 teratonne of carbon leading to an 18.85 C temperature rise.
noLabel	The former Portuguese colony of Macau, a special administrative region of China since 1999, is a popular destination for visitors who wish to gamble.	This started in Portuguese times, when Macau was popular with visitors from nearby British Hong Kong where gambling was more closely regulated.
noLabel	HIV prevalence in west Africa is lowest in Chad, Niger and Mali, and highest in Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire and Nigeria.	Nigeria has the second largest number of people living with HIV in Africa after South Africa, although the infection rate (number of patients relative to the entire population) based upon Nigeria's estimated population is much lower, generally believed to be well under 7%, as opposed to South Africa's which is well into the double-digits (nearer 30%). 
noLabel	According to The Jerusalem Post, some of the IEDs were manufactured from medicine bottles transferred to the Gaza Strip as humanitarian aid by Israel .	The same newspaper also reported that Hamas representatives said they were fighting with the aid of armored vehicles and weapons confiscated from the Palestinian National Authority, given by Israel, the United States and other countries . 
noLabel	Lower positive impacts are found in the tropical regions, as it has been noted that the reservoirs of power plants in tropical regions may produce substantial amounts of methane.	This is due to plant material in flooded areas decaying in an anaerobic environment, and forming methane, a potent greenhouse gas.
noLabel	The Ministry was responsible for keeping much information out of the public domain during the war years, as it was thought that this would have been harmful to the national sentiment.	It also censored many press reports that were not deemed to be sufficiently patriotic, or that listed military operations to a level of detail that could be used by the enemy. 
noLabel	The Soviet Union was less forthcoming about such incidents, but the environmental group Greenpeace believes that there are around forty non-U.S. nuclear devices that have been lost and not recovered, compared to eleven lost by America, mostly in submarine disasters.	The U.S. has tried to recover Soviet devices, notably in the 1974 Operation Jennifer using the specialist salvage vessel Hughes Glomar Explorer. 
noLabel	The National Audit Office expressed concern at the lack of checks that had been conducted and the Home Secretary admitted that the system had been “insufficiently robust”.	It transpired that warnings had been given by the visa issuing post in Sofia that checks on applications were being waived in London against their wishes . 
noLabel	Ehud Olmert stated that Israel would not agree to a long term truce or lift the blockade on Gaza without the freeing of Gilad Shalit, an IDF soldier held captive in Gaza since June 2006 .	Hamas demanded that Israel release 1,400 Palestinian prisoners in exchange for Shalit and such negotiations be kept separate from ceasefire negotiations .
noLabel	The schools would receive state funding and private donations, but have the same freedoms as private schools in matters such as in setting the curriculum, length of the school day/year and teachers' pay.	Schools would still be subject to external reviews (most likely by the Education Review Office), and the government would still have the power to sack an organisation running a school on poor performance . 
noLabel	In some countries such as the Netherlands, electricity companies guarantee to buy an equal amount of 'green power' as is being used by their green power customers.	The Dutch government exempts green power from pollution taxes, which means green power is hardly any more expensive than other power. 
noLabel	The Votes at 16 coalition, a group of political and charitable organisations supporting a reduction of the voting age to 16, was launched on 29 January 2003 .	At this time a Private Member's Bill was also proposed in the House of Lords by Lord Lucas, and received a Second Reading on 9 January . 
noLabel	The New Testament, in which the first pope, St. Peter, commands that all Christians shall honour the Roman Emperor (), even though, at that time, he was still a pagan emperor.	Likewise, Jesus Christ proclaims in the Gospel of Matthew that one should "Render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's"; that is at first, literally, the payment of taxes as binding those who use the imperial currency, but more widely interpreted as the offer of obedience and submission to the proclaimed worldly king () in matters not contrary to conscience. 
noLabel	In the United States, the term for most existing works is a fixed number of years after the date of creation or publication.	Under most countries' laws (for example, the United States and the United Kingdom), copyrights expire at the end of the calendar year in question. 
noLabel	Since the SOFA also exempts most U.S. military members from Japanese visa and passport laws, past incidents occurred in which U.S. military members charged with crimes by Japanese authorities on Okinawa were transferred back to the U.S. without facing prosecution in Japanese courts.	In cases where the charged servicemember remained in Japan, Japanese authorities often did not have access to question or interrogate the U.S. servicemember, making it difficult for Japanese prosecutors to prepare a case for indictment . 
noLabel	In 1987 a law repressing incitation to suicide was passed, after a best-selling book called "Suicide, mode d'emploi" was published in 1982.	The bill was first adopted by the Senate in 1983; in 1987, during the debates before the National Assembly, the book was cited by name as a prime example of what was to be banned .
noLabel	This loyalty has taken a variety of forms over time: suppression of slave rebellions, support of whites-only unions, and promotion for police brutality.	Like currency, the value of this privilege depends on the reliability of a white appearance as a marker for social consent.
noLabel	The woman was later identified as V. N. who was 40 years old, and originally from the Philippines, had lived in Okinawa for 17 years, and was married to a Japanese citizen of Okinawan descent.	She reported that she had picked up Brown in her car about 1:30&nbsp;a.m. after the officers' club closed and that he directed her to the deserted road behind the base and after parking, Brown tried to rape her and then threw her mobile phone into the river when she tried to call the police.
noLabel	McCain backs reauthorization of the Americans with Disabilities Act, saying in a July 26, 2008 address to the Americans with Disabilities Conference that he will support the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 passed by the House of Representatives when it comes to a Senate vote .	McCain has not completed a questionnaire on disability issues furnished to his campaign by the American Association of People with Disabilities .
noLabel	On 3 May 2010, the European Central Bank (ECB) suspended its minimum threshold for Greek debt "until further notice", meaning the bonds will remain eligible as collateral even with junk status.	The decision will guarantee Greek banks' access to cheap central bank funding, and analysts said it should also help increase Greek bonds' attractiveness to investors .
noLabel	According to Greenpeace, oil sands industry has been identified as the largest contributor to greenhouse gas emissions growth in Canada, as it accounts for 40&nbsp;million tons of emissions per year .	According to the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers and Environment Canada the oil sands make up about 5% of Canada's greenhouse gas emissions, or 0.1% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
noLabel	Following up on Senator Hatch's actions in the Senate, in April 2011 the Attorney General of Utah announced that he would be initiating a class action anti-trust lawsuit against the BCS, despite the fact that Utah is moving to the Pacific 10 Conference, which is an automatic qualifying conference.	In March 2011 the U.S. Justice Department sent a formal letter of notice to the NCAA asking for a detailed explanation about why FBS football was the only NCAA sport that the NCAA did not 1) have a playoff system in place to determine a champion and 2) why the NCAA had abrogated its responsibility to do so and given the authority to determine the NCAA Champion to an outside group such as the BCS.
noLabel	In low concentrations (an average cigarette yields about 1&nbsp;mg of absorbed nicotine), the substance acts as a stimulant in mammals and is the main factor responsible for the dependence-forming properties of tobacco smoking.	According to the American Heart Association, nicotine addiction has historically been one of the hardest addictions to break, while the pharmacological and behavioral characteristics that determine tobacco addiction are similar to those determining addiction to heroin and cocaine.
noLabel	In addition, despite the amount of renewable energy produced or the economic viability of such technologies only about 20 percent will be able to be incorporated into the grid.	To have a more sustainable energy profile, the United States must move towards implementing changes to the electrical grid that will accommodate a mixed-fuel economy . 
noLabel	One of the cases Ratzinger pursued involved Father Marcial Maciel Degollado, a Mexican priest and founder of the Legion of Christ, who had been accused repeatedly of sexual abuse.	Biographer Andrea Tornielli suggested that Cardinal Ratzinger had wanted to take action against Marcial Maciel Degollado, but that John Paul II and other high-ranking officials, including several cardinals and notably the pope's influential secretary Stanisław Dziwisz, prevented him from doing so .
noLabel	Another study related to genetic changes in smokers was conducted by Wan L Lam and Stephen Lam from the BC Cancer Agency, in 2007.	The study revealed that cigarette smoke can turn on or off some of the genes, which otherwise would remain inactive or active respectively.
noLabel	Although early sexual activity may be caused by a variety of factors, the media are believed to play a significant role.	U.S. teens rank the media second only to school sex education programs as a leading source of information about sex" .
noLabel	Following the events of the Gaza flotilla raid in May 2010, after Egypt opened its borders with Gaza, it was reported that former Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak was caught between the need to appease growing public anger at Israel's actions and the necessity of maintaining his close relationship with Israel.	This friendship was needed to secure more than $2bn of American aid annually, money on which many analysts believe Mubarak's regime depended on .
noLabel	According to the Nuclear Threat Initiative, in 1977 Israel traded 30&nbsp;grams of tritium for 50 tons of South African uranium and in the mid-1980s assisted with the development of the RSA-3 and RSA-4 ballistic missiles, which are similar to Israeli Shavit and Jericho missiles .	Also in 1977, according to foreign press reports, it was suspected that South Africa signed a pact with Israel that included the transfer of military technology and the manufacture of at least six nuclear bombs . 
noLabel	STD may refer only to infections that are causing diseases, or it may be used more loosely as a synonym for STI.	Because most of the time people do not know that they are infected with an STD until they are tested or start showing symptoms of disease, most people use the term STD, even though the term STI is also appropriate in many cases. 
noLabel	In 1967, the US Patent Trademark Trial and Appeal Board ruled that "the term 'Montessori' has a generic and/or descriptive significance.	" Therefore, in the United States and elsewhere, the term can be used freely without giving any guarantee of how closely, if at all, a program applies Montessori's work.
noLabel	As Corbett recounts, the tradition of his Quaker faith and its involvement in the Underground Railroad compelled him to take action.	Gary Cook, associate pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church in Massillon, Ohio, cited the simple experience of personal interaction: "We're a very conservative group of folks politically.
noLabel	The name also refers more generically to the early nuclear weapon designs of U.S. weapons based on the "Fat Man" model.	It was an implosion-type weapon with a plutonium core, similar to "The gadget", the experimental device detonated only a month earlier in New Mexico . 
noLabel	Overstayers were, until the end of the 1990s, treated as potential deportees – a cumbersome administrative process which involved a written submission to the Home Secretary in each case.	Until the mid 1980s there were attempts to prosecute overstayers but this was seen to be both expensive in terms of court time and of little deterrence value as well as further delaying the persons departure.
noLabel	Stephen Jarvis echoes this skepticism in The Independent, noting that VHEMT faces great difficulty owing to the human reproductive drive .	At the The Guardians website, Guy Dammann applauds the movement's aim as "in many ways laudable", but argues that it is absurd to believe that humans will voluntarily seek extinction .
noLabel	Article VI of the NPT represents the only binding commitment in a multilateral treaty to the goal of disarmament by the nuclear-weapon States.	The NPT's preamble contains language affirming the desire of treaty signatories to ease international tension and strengthen international trust so as to create someday the conditions for a halt to the production of nuclear weapons, and treaty on general and complete disarmament that liquidates, in particular, nuclear weapons and their delivery vehicles from national arsenals. 
noLabel	In addition, though these functions and subfunctions are included in a budget resolution, which determines how Congress considers budget related legislation, they have little correspondence to any committee jurisdictions.	Functions are, however, useful in understanding the placement of any given account in the federal government: Each account number has a series of numbers, the last three will indicate the function and subfunction; for example an account ending in "051" will indicate function 050 (Defense) and subfunction 051, which indicates a type of spending within the Defense category. 
noLabel	By roughly 1725, however, this subject matter had radically expanded and diversified, including "royal propaganda, philosophical battles, and critical ruminations on the social and political institutions of the Old Regime."	Controversial topics were not always avoided: Caradonna cites as examples the theories of Newton and Descartes, the slave trade, women's education, and justice in France . 
noLabel	On 19 December 2009, Pope Benedict XVI signed the first of two decrees needed for beatification and proclaimed John Paul II "Venerable", asserting that he had lived a heroic, virtuous life .	The second vote and the second signed decree certify the authenticity of his first miracle, the curing of Sister Marie Simon-Pierre, a French nun, from Parkinson's disease.
noLabel	In the Republic of Ireland secondary school starts at the age of 12, and lasts three or optionally five or six years.	The main types of secondary school are: community schools, comprehensive schools, colleges (though this term is more usually applied to third-level institutions like universities), vocational schools, voluntary secondary schools and meánscoileanna (secondary schools that teach all subjects through Irish).
noLabel	These conditions need to be changed in such a way that they do not make young people join radical organisations" .	Schwarzenberg also condemned Hamas' placement of strategic military targets in densely populated areas, and hinted that this likely elevated civilian casualties .
noLabel	Recipients of a master's degree in the U.S. or UK wear a similar cap and gown but closed sleeves with slits, and usually receive a ceremonial hood that hangs down the back of the gown.	In the U.S. the hood is traditionally edged with a silk or velvet strip displaying the disciplinary color, and is lined with the university's colors. 
noLabel	Many parents of children born in hospitals now choose to have their sons circumcised in the hospital setting, a few days after birth .	In Pakistan, Muslims may be circumcised at all ages from the newborn period to adulthood, though the medical profession has encouraged medical circumcisions in the first week after birth to reduce complications: "Circumcision is performed by barbers, medical technicians, quacks and doctors including paediatric surgeon[s] [and as] yet there is no consensus for the best age and method.
noLabel	Multiculturalism is a developmental journey through which an individual enhances knowledge and skills about different cultures so that he/she can feel comfortable in any situation and can communicate effectively with other individuals from any culture .	Talbot states, “Multiculturalism is not an inherent characteristic of any individual, no matter his or her race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, or gender; rather, it is based on an individual’s ability and openness to learn” .
noLabel	Additional operating reserve: if additional wind does not correspond to demand patterns, additional operating reserve may be required compared to other generating types, however this does not result in higher capital costs for additional plants since this is merely existing plants running at low output - spinning reserve.	Contrary to statements that all wind must be backed by an equal amount of "back-up capacity", intermittent generators contribute to base capacity "as long as there is some probability of output during peak periods."
noLabel	Norris said the campaign had grown much bigger than she initially intended, and that her cartoon was being used in ways she couldn't control.	"I just want to go back to my quiet life", she told the writer of a blog about comics at The Washington Post .
noLabel	During the 20th century and early in the next, the dramatic increase in average life span is widely credited to public health achievements, such as vaccination programs and control of many infectious diseases including polio, diphtheria, yellow fever and smallpox; effective health and safety policies such as road traffic safety and occupational safety; improved family planning; tobacco control measures; and programs designed to decrease non-communicable diseases by acting on known risk factors such as a person's background, lifestyle and environment.	One of the major sources of the increase in average life span in the early 20th century was the decline in the "urban penalty" brought on by improvements in sanitation.
noLabel	He asks the control panel scientist if the test can be aborted and is told "yes", but it would ruin all their preparations in setting up timed measuring instruments in the race against the Russians.	In Mike the fallout correctly landed north of the inhabited area but, in the 1954 Bravo test, there was a lot of wind shear, and the wind that was blowing north the day before the test steadily veered towards the east. 
noLabel	However, regardless of specific electoral successes or failures, the concept of western alienation continues to be important in Canadian politics, particularly on a provincial level, where opposing the federal government is a common tactic for provincial politicians.	For example, in 2001, a group of prominent Albertans produced the Alberta Agenda, urging Alberta to take steps to make full use of its constitutional powers, much as Quebec has done.
noLabel	Israel and some western governments fear Iran is using its nuclear programme as a covert means to develop weapons, while Iran says it is aimed solely at producing electricity.	For its part in the conflict-ridden Middle East, Israel is a member of the IAEA, but it is not itself a signatory to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and is widely believed to currently be the only nuclear-armed state in the region .
noLabel	Amongst the Gikuyu (Kikuyu) people of Kenya and the Maasai people of Kenya and Tanzania, male circumcision has historically been the graduation element of an educational program which taught tribal beliefs, practices, culture, religion and history to youth who were on the verge of becoming full-fledged members of society.	The circumcision ceremony was very public, and required a display of courage under the knife in order to maintain the honor and prestige of the young man and his family.
noLabel	1990 Rejection of Constitutional Amendment – Following the Eichman decision, Congress considered and rejected a Constitutional Amendment specifying that "the Congress and the States have the power to prohibit the physical desecration of the flag of the United States."	The amendment failed to muster the necessary two-thirds Congressional majorities, as it was supported by only a 254 – 177 margin in the House (290 votes were necessary) and a 58 – 42 margin in the Senate (67 votes were necessary). 
noLabel	For almost two decades, it was assumed that AAS exerted significant effects only in experienced strength athletes, particularly based on the studies of Hervey and coworkers .	In 1996, a randomized controlled trial published in the New England Journal of Medicine demonstrated, however, that even in novice athletes a 10-week strength training program accompanied by testosterone enanthate at 600&nbsp;mg/week may improve strength more than training alone does .
noLabel	Historian Walter Laqueur, author of The Last Days of Europe: Epitaph for an Old Continent, has written that "the fears that Europe risks becoming a Muslim-dominated Eurabia, adopting Sharia, are a vast distortion of the views of serious students of Europe's present state and future prospects".	He notes that Muslim immigrants to Europe come from many different countries, the majority non-Arab, and that they have "common interests.. but also great differences, even in their attitudes to religion" .
noLabel	Patents have also been criticized for being granted on already-known inventions, with many complaining in the United States that the USPTO fails "to do a serious job of examining patents, thus allowing bad patents to slip through the system.	" On the other hand, it has been argued that because of low number of patents going into litigation, increasing quality of patents at patent prosecution stage will increase overall legal costs associated with patents, and that current USPTO policy is a reasonable compromise between full trial on examination stage on one hand, and pure registration without examination, on the other hand . 
noLabel	French secularism, in French, laïcité (pronounced ) is a concept denoting the absence of religious involvement in government affairs as well as absence of government involvement in religious affairs .	French secularism has a long history but the current regime is based on the 1905 French law on the Separation of the Churches and the State .
noLabel	Hughes said, I have been in the district 21 years and I have not known of a kid that was on steroids.	Asked about the most urgent challenges the school faced with students, Boydston said, I think steroids are at the bottom of the list.
noLabel	Spinoza reasoned that if we were to look at things objectively we would discover that everything in the universe has a unique value.	Likewise, it is possible that a human-centred or anthropocentric/androcentric ethic is not an accurate depiction of reality, and there is a bigger picture that we may or may not be able to understand from a human perspective. 
noLabel	Removing a dead fetus does not meet the federal legal definition of "partial-birth abortion," which specifies that partial live delivery must precede "the overt act, other than completion of delivery, that kills the partially delivered living fetus.	" Additionally, a doctor may extract a fetus past the navel and then "disarticulate at the neck", which could fall within the terms of the statute even though it would not result in an intact body and therefore would not be an intact dilation and extraction .
noLabel	Athletes from across the spectrum have made their intentions signally clear: they will continue to defy the most stringent tests and stay ahead of the curve, always leaving testers lagging in their quest to eliminate doping.	While the governing bodies continue to outlaw pharmaceutically produced substances, athletes are forced to engage in clandestine arrangements, procuring dope from unknown sources and taking it in amounts and for periods that may prove detrimental to their health.
noLabel	Translating this into an actual number means that in China alone there are 50 million women "missing" - that should be there but are not.	Adding up similar numbers from South and West Asia results in a number of "missing" women higher than 100 million .
noLabel	The Global Expert Finder supports the work of journalists, editors and producers, particularly but not exclusively in times of cross-cultural crises.	It encourages a broad diversity of experts and opinion leaders to share their perspectives on issues that go to the core of relations among diverse communities, broadening the choice of available commentary. 
noLabel	On October 2, 2003, with a vote of 281-142, the House again approved a measure banning the procedure, called the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act.	Through this legislation, a doctor could face up to two years in prison and face civil lawsuits for performing such an abortion.
noLabel	Examples of better-known multiplayer gametypes include deathmatch and team deathmatch, MMORPG-associated forms of PvP and Team PvE, capture the flag, domination (competition over control of resources), co-op, and various objective-based modes, often expressed in terms of "assault/defend a control point".	Multiplayer games typically require the players to share resources of a single game system or use networking technologies that allow players to play together over greater distances.
noLabel	However, there is little clear consensus on the trade-offs between speed and control, especially in emergency situations when the humanitarian imperative of saving lives and alleviating suffering may conflict with the time and resources required to minimise corruption risks .	Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute have highlighted the need to tackle corruption with, but not limited to, the following methods:
noLabel	He was the first reigning pope to travel to the United Kingdom, in 1982, where he met Queen Elizabeth&nbsp;II, the Supreme Governor of the Church of England.	He travelled to Haiti in 1983, where he spoke in Creole to thousands of impoverished Catholics gathered to greet him at the airport.
noLabel	In summary, whilst some progress has been made there are still many areas where the pace of change must be accelerated if the targets set for 2010 are to be reached.	In addition to the data from the monitoring survey a useful way of understanding donor and recipient country performance is to examine donor and recipient country self-assessments, donor evaluations and Development Assistance Committee Peer Reviews. 
noLabel	The game also introduced the need for the player to memorise levels in order to achieve any measure of success .	Thrust (1986) has the player maneuver a spaceship through a series of 2D cavernous landscapes, with the aim of recovering a pendulous pod, while counteracting gravity, inertia and avoiding or destroying enemy turrets. 
noLabel	According to Worksite Health Promotion with Infinite Wellness Solutions, it is essential wellness programs have specific goals that provide a specific direction for the program .	Goals can include keeping tracking of the number of participants who improved their fitness level or the number of participants screened.
noLabel	IAF developed small bomb that is designed not to explode as it was aimed at empty areas of the roofs to frighten residents into leaving the building .	Israel's military used low-explosive missiles to warn civilians of imminent attack and to verify that buildings were evacuated before attacks .
noLabel	In implementing its research, CIFOR is collaborating with other Centers within the CGIAR — the World Agroforestry Centre, the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) and Bioversity International — to conduct the CGIAR Consortium Research Programme Forests, Trees and Agroforestry (also known as CRP6).	CRP6 aims to achieve a clear objective: enhancing the management and use of forests, agroforestry and tree genetic resources across the landscape, from forests to farms.
noLabel	However, there is no doubt that Britain would have run out of food in both the First and Second World Wars if it had not been able to import food from abroad, particularly from the USA.	Britain also discovered in both wars that she had been vulnerably dependent on Germany for many advanced manufactured goods, which again put it at a major disadvantage. 
noLabel	And Jeff McMahan grants that under very limited circumstances it may be permissible to kill one infant to save the lives of several others .	Opponents may see these concessions as a reductio ad absurdum of these writers' views; while supporters may see them merely as examples of unpleasant acts being justified in unusual cases.
noLabel	Stallman also published the GNU Manifesto, in 1985, to outline the GNU project's purpose and explain the importance of free software.	Another probable inspiration for the GNU project and its manifesto was a disagreement between Stallman and Symbolics, Inc. over MIT's access to updates Symbolics had made to its Lisp machine, which was based on MIT code .
noLabel	Infant and Toddler Programs: Montessori classrooms for children under three fall into several categories, with a number of terms being used.	A "Nido", Italian for "nest", serves a small number of children from around two months to around fourteen months, or when the child is confidently walking.
noLabel	The largest IDP populations can be found in Colombia, the DRC, Iraq, Sudan and Azerbaijan each with IDP populations of over one million .	An updated country by country breakdown can be found at:  It has been estimated that between 70 and 80% of all IDPs are women and children .
noLabel	Switzerland draws a distinction between vocational education and training (VET) programmes at upper-secondary level, and professional education and training (PET) programmes, which take place at tertiary B level.	In 2007, more than half of the population aged 25–64 had a VET or PET qualification as their highest level of education.
noLabel	When the two countries' autarkic consumptions are added, the total quantity of each good produced/consumed is less than the world's PPF under free trade.	This indicates that by trading, the absolute quantity of goods available for consumption is higher than the quantity available under autarky.
noLabel	The school district said that it has been harassed so often by Warren that it was not able to functionally educate its students.	Toni Wayas, the school district’s superintendent, claimed "that it had, time and time again, complied with the requests" The Goldwater Institute argued that the school district had been in violation of state laws mandating government transparency in the past.
noLabel	As the Army Component Command to United States Forces Japan (USFJ) and as a Major Subordinate Command of United States Army Pacific (USARPAC), United States Army Japan (USARJ)/I Corps (FWD) is responsible to provide support of Article V (Defense of Japan) and VI (ensuring regional stability) of the Mutual Security Treaty (MST).	It serves as a forward stationed Army command and control headquarters; supports regional security cooperation activities with the Japan Ground Self Defense Force (JGSDF) for the purpose of contributing to the security of Japan and maintenance of peace and security in the Far East; provides communities of excellence and installation operations that support Soldiers, Civilians, and their Families. 
noLabel	Vancouver has also developed a particularly large cluster of video game developers, the largest of which, Electronic Arts, employs over two thousand people.	The Assassins Creed series, along with the Tom Clancy series and more recently Rainbow Six, have all been produced in Canada and have achieved worldwide success.
noLabel	According to The Times (London), WikiLeaks and its members have complained about continuing harassment and surveillance by law enforcement and intelligence organisations, including extended detention, seizure of computers, veiled threats, "covert following and hidden photography.	" Two lawyers for Julian Assange in the United Kingdom told The Guardian that they believed they were being watched by the security services after the U.S. cables leak, which started on 28 November 2010 . 
noLabel	The working party said its favoured option was "a five-term year with terms of around eight weeks, followed by two-week breaks and four weeks in the summer."	Advantages would include a more even pace to the academic year, opportunities for an improved modular curriculum, and more chances during the year for parents and staff to fit in a fortnight's holiday.
noLabel	Although anorexia nervosa is usually associated with Western cultures, exposure to Western media is thought to have led to an increase in cases in non-Western countries.	But other cultures may not display the same worries about becoming fat as those in the West, and instead may emphasise other common features. 
noLabel	Conversely, on particularly windy days, even with penetration levels of 16%, wind power generation can surpass all other electricity sources in a country .	In Spain, on 8 November 2009 wind power production reached the highest percentage of electricity production till then, with wind farms covering 53% of the total demand . 
noLabel	Only an hour after his scheduled arrival at Yangon, it was reported that Ibrahim Gambari, the UN Secretary-General's special adviser on Myanmar, had arrived in Naypyidaw to talk with the junta leaders .	White House National Security Council Spokesman Gordon Johndroe stated "We have concerns that Mr. Gambari was swiftly moved from Rangoon (Yangon) to the new capital in the interior, far from population centres" and urged the junta to allow Gambari wide access to people, religious leaders and Aung San Suu Kyi.
noLabel	Employers who pay the state unemployment tax on a timely basis receive an offset credit of up to 5.4 percent regardless of the rate of tax they pay their state.	Therefore, the net FUTA tax rate is generally 0.6 percent (6.0 percent - 5.4 percent), for a maximum FUTA tax of $42.00 per employee, per year (.008 X $7,000 = $56.00).
noLabel	In early 1930s, the Soviets were the instrumental contributors made to the advancement of nuclear physics and its related sciences, such as nuclear chemistry.	The initial Soviet interest in nuclear physics had begun in the early 1930s through the Soviet Academy of Sciences, an era in which a variety of important nuclear discoveries and achievements were made (the identification of the neutron and proton as fundamental particles, the operation of the first cyclotron to energies of over 1 MeV, and the first splitting of the atomic nucleus by John Cockcroft and Ernest Walton).
noLabel	Adding that "For the peace process, this story feels relevant in ways that may not be obvious right away, as though something has shifted.	It’s not as simple as Israel stumbling into a PR disaster or lost international support, as some would like to make it."
noLabel	Some opponents of affirmative action view the greater access by women and minority groups to be at the expense of groups considered dominant (typically white men).	In their view, these policies demonstrate an overt preference for applicants from particular backgrounds over better-qualified (or equally-qualified) candidates from other backgrounds.
noLabel	These schools marked the beginning of modern schooling in India and the syllabus and calendar they followed became the benchmark for schools in modern India.	Today most of the schools follow the missionary school model in terms of tutoring, subject / syllabus, governance etc.with minor changes.
noLabel	Sweden is internationally known for this innovative school voucher model that provides Swedish pupils with the opportunity to choose the school they prefer .	For instance, the biggest school chain, Kunskapsskolan (“The Knowledge School”), offers 30 schools and a web-based environment, has 700 employees and teaches nearly 10,000 pupils . 
noLabel	Similarly, British Acts of the Parliament will start with: BE IT ENACTED by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows..	The phrasing, however, is different when the bill is passed under the provisions of the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949, without the consent of the Lords.
noLabel	Since diversity is an ambiguous term grounded in context, it does not necessarily mean the same thing to all the people all the time.	Diversity encourages the process of including the perspectives of under-represented, non-dominant groups in organizations to ensure they have a voice (Orbe & Spellers, 2005); however, Von Bergen, Soper, & Foster(2002) argue that the dominant group must also be part of the diversity initiative or an “us versus them” mentality becomes entrenched in the organization impeding the effectiveness of any diversity initiative, thereby delegitimizing it. 
noLabel	With an air burst, the fission products rise into the stratosphere, where they dissipate and become part of the global environment.	Because Little Boy was an air burst above the ground, there was no bomb crater and no local radioactive fallout . 
noLabel	The Israeli government has responded to these accusations by stating that its use of force in the Gaza Strip are acts of self-defense rather than reprisals or punishment .	Israeli human rights groups criticized the Israeli military for failing to properly investigate violations of the laws of war in Gaza, despite evidence of possible war crimes .
noLabel	The journal Nature has reported that the IAEA response to the Fukushima I nuclear accidents in Japan was "sluggish and sometimes confusing", drawing calls for the agency to "take a more proactive role in nuclear safety".	But nuclear experts say that the agency's complicated mandate and the constraints imposed by its member states mean that reforms will not happen quickly or easily, although its INES "emergency scale is very likely to be revisited" given the confusing way in which it was used in Japan . 
noLabel	He said submarine numbers may be cut from four to three, while the number of nuclear warheads would be cut by 20% to 160.	Mr Blair said although the Cold War had ended, the UK needed nuclear weapons, as no-one could be sure another nuclear threat would not emerge in the future.
noLabel	The view that the existence or nonexistence of any deities is currently unknown but is not necessarily unknowable; therefore, one will withhold judgment until/if any evidence is available.	A weak agnostic would say, "I don't know whether any deities exist or not, but maybe one day, when there is evidence, we can find something out."
noLabel	Tennis is yet another sport which originated in the United Kingdom, first originating in the city of Birmingham between 1859 and 1865.	However, it has not flourished there in recent decades: its profile is highly dependent on the Wimbledon Championships, the most prestigious event of the global tennis calendar.
noLabel	The powers to remove illegal entrants are found in paragraphs 9 or 10 of schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971.	These enable an Immigration Officer to give any directions for removal as are authorised in paragraph 8 of schedule 2 to the 1971 Act. 
noLabel	Yet recent information from unclassified Venona intercepts and the opening of the KGB archives after the fall of the Soviet Union show that the USSR had useful spies that helped their program, although none were identified by McCarthy.	Before this, though, President Truman announced a decision to begin a crash program that would develop a far more powerful weapon than those the U.S. used against Japan: the hydrogen bomb.
noLabel	Research is underway on turbine and generator designs which reduce the need for neodymium, or eliminate the use of rare-earth metals altogether .	However, Enercon did choose very early not to use permanent magnets for its direct drive turbines, in order to avoid responsibility in the bad environmental imprint of rare earth mining .
noLabel	More recently, media violence experts have acknowledged that societal media consumption and violent crime rates are not well associated, but claim that this is likely due to other variables that are poorly understood.	However, this effect remains poorly explained by current media violence theories, and media violence researchers may need to be more careful not to retreat to an unfalsifiable theory – one that cannot be disproven (Freedman, 2002). 
noLabel	In 2004, Yee had drafted a law that would have required mature-rated video games to be stocked separately from other titles.	Though the bill ultimately passed as CA Law AB 1793, the bill's language was diluted at its passage, only requiring stores to display the ESRB ratings system and provide information to parents about it .
noLabel	Deinstitutionalization: Youths charged with "status" offenses that would not be crimes if committed by adults, such as truancy, running away and being caught with alcohol or tobacco, must be "deinstitutionalized," which in this case really means that, with certain exceptions (e.g., minor in possession of a handgun), status offenders may not be detained by police or confined.	Alleged problems with this mandate are that it overrides state and local law, limits the discretion of law enforcement officers and prevents the authorities' ability to reunify an offender with his family .
noLabel	Their deforestation estimates are derived from 100 to 220 images taken during the dry season in the Amazon by the China–Brazil Earth Resources Satellite program (CBERS), and may only consider the loss of the Amazon rainforest biome – not the loss of natural fields or savannah within the rainforest.	According to INPE, the original Amazon rainforest biome in Brazil of 4,100,000&nbsp;km² was reduced to 3,403,000&nbsp;km² by 2005 – representing a loss of 17.1% . 
noLabel	In April 1999, the fears of the media and violence-watch groups were legitimated in their eyes as investigations into the lives of Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold, the shooters in the Columbine High School massacre, revealed that they had been fans of the video game, Doom, and had even created levels for it today dubbed "the Harris levels".	A great deal of discussion of violence in video games followed this event with strong arguments made on both sides, and research into the phenomenon which had begun during the 1980s received renewed support and interest . 
noLabel	A lack of good universities, and a low acceptance rate for good universities, is evident in countries with a high population density.	In some countries, there are uniform, over structured, inflexible centralized programs from a central agency that regulates all aspects of education. 
noLabel	In contrast to their public housing cousins, commercially developed high-rise apartment buildings continue to flourish in cities around the country largely due to high land prices and the housing boom of the 2000s.	The Upper East Side in New York City and Chicago's Gold Coast, both featuring high-rise apartments, are the wealthiest urban neighborhoods in the United States. 
noLabel	Compared with individuals that did not use steroids, young adult males that used anabolic-androgenic steroids reported greater involvement in violent behaviors even after controlling for the effects of key demographic variables, previous violent behavior, and polydrug use .	A 1996 review examining the blind studies available at that time also found that these had demonstrated a link between aggression and steroid use, but pointed out that with estimates of over one million past or current steroid users in the United States at that time, an extremely small percentage of those using steroids appear to have experienced mental disturbance severe enough to result in clinical treatments or medical case reports . 
noLabel	In 2007, a study ordered by the U.S. Congress found that middle school students who took part in abstinence-only sex education programs were just as likely to have sex (and use contraception) in their teenage years as those who did not .	Abstinence-only advocates claimed that the study was flawed because it was too narrow and began when abstinence-only curricula were in their infancy, and that other studies have demonstrated positive effects . 
noLabel	The 1-D radiative-convective models used in these studies produced a range of results, with coolings up to 15-42 °C between 14 and 35 days after the war, with a "baseline" of about 20 °C.	Somewhat more sophisticated calculations using 3-D GCMs (Alexandrov and Stenchikov (1983); Covey, Schneider and Thompson (1984); produced similar results: temperature drops of between 20 and 40 °C, though with regional variations. 
noLabel	Although there were comprehensive records of how many applications had been refused over the years it was simply not known, and could not be known, how many people had managed to stay in the UK illegally.	It was clear that, until 2006, the numbers of people applying for asylum was greater than the numbers being removed but simply subtracting one from the other did not work.
noLabel	The more recent Tea Party takeover of the GOP ΓÇô with the attendant hatred of a black president, Latino immigrants, civil rights and multicultural diversity ΓÇô represents a natural consequence of that strategy.	And the exclusively rightwing Republican fixation with voter fraud and voter ID reflects this new reality.Across the nation, 33 states have proposed laws restricting voting, including a requirement that citizens present a government-issued photo ID in order to vote.
noLabel	Reuters reported that protesters who applauded the demonstrations could face two to five years in jail, while the leaders could face 20 years.	The Democratic Voice of Burma forwarded reports of some 50 students who demonstrated in Mandalay who had been sentenced to five years hard labor . 
noLabel	With the interest of the Heereswaffenamt (HWA, Army Ordnance Office), Nikolaus Riehl, and his colleague Günter Wirths, set up an industrial-scale production of high-purity uranium oxide at the Auergesellschaft plant in Oranienburg.	Adding to the capabilities in the final stages of metallic uranium production were the strength’s of the Degussa corporation’s capabilities in metals production . 
noLabel	Since late April 2007, the Iranian government has forcibly deported back to Afghanistan mostly unregistered (and some registered) Afghans living and working in Iran at a rate between 250,000 and 300,000 per year.	The forceful evictions of the refugees, who lived in Iran and Pakistan for nearly three decades, are part of the two countries' larger plans to repatriate all Afghan refugees within a few years.
noLabel	In addition to milah (the actual circumcision) and priah, mentioned above, the Talmud mentions a third step, metzitzah, or squeezing some blood from the wound.	As opposed to milah, a Divine law, and priah, a Rabbinic law, metzitzah is a Rabbinic injunction meant to protect the health of the baby: As understood by medical science of the time, this would prevent infection. 
noLabel	Prevention of MTBI involves taking general measures to prevent traumatic brain injury, such as wearing seat belts and using airbags in cars .	Older people are encouraged to try to prevent falls, for example by keeping floors free of clutter and wearing thin, flat, shoes with hard soles that do not interfere with balance . 
noLabel	Physician and professor of Psychology Harrison Pope theorized, “Many boys are embarrassed and ashamed of their appearance concerns, and keep them a secret.	They may feel it ‘wimpy’ or ‘girlish’ to worry about their looks.. [they're] increasingly vulnerable to the advertising messages of the supplement industry and other body image industries eager to capitalize on their anxieties.” .
noLabel	Today, the video game industry is a juggernaut of development; profit still drives technological advancement which is then used by other industry sectors.	Though maturing, the video game industry is still very volatile, with third-party video game developers quickly cropping up, and just as quickly, going out of business.
noLabel	The regional divisions of WHO were created between 1949 and 1952, and are based on article 44 of WHO's constitution, which allowed the WHA to "establish a [single] regional organization to meet the special needs of [each defined] area".	Many decisions are made at regional level, including importance discussions over WHO's budget, and in deciding the members of the next assembly, which are designated by the regions . 
noLabel	An increase in tensions between Japan and North Korea in the late 1990s led to a surge of attacks against Chongryon, the pro-North residents organisation, including a pattern of assaults against Korean schoolgirls in Japan .	For a long time, Chongryon enjoyed unofficial immunity from searches and investigations, although it has long been suspected of a variety of criminal acts on behalf of North Korea, such as illegal transfer of funds to North Korea and espionage. 
noLabel	did not declare whether it believes the document was real, and European spy agencies also did not give any authentication to the document .	Western intelligence agencies said that, if genuine, it was unclear whether the paper provided any new insights into the state of Iranian weapons research .
noLabel	Under Proposition 14, statewide and congressional candidates in California, regardless of party preference, participate in the nonpartisan blanket primary, and the top two candidates advance to the general election.	This does not affect the presidential primary, local offices, or non-partisan offices such as judges and the Superintendent of Public Instruction .
noLabel	In February 2010, a Jewish couple were fined for causing bodily harm to their then infant son who was circumcised in 2008 by a mohel brought in from the UK.	Normal procedure for persons of Jewish faith in Finland is to have a locally certified mohel who work in Finnish healthcare perform the operation.
noLabel	On September 23, 2009, U.S. President Barack Obama launched a campaign called "Educate to Innovate" aimed at improving the technological, mathematical, scientific and engineering abilities of American students.	This campaign states that it plans to harness the power of interactive games to help achieve the goal of students excelling in these departments .
noLabel	Local poverty and the extremely high value of rosewood have driven the local people to violate their local taboos, or fady, by cutting down these trees they hold to be sacred .	The Deputy Director of Prevention at the Independent Anti-Corruption Office (BIANCO) cites the sharp fall of vanilla prices in mid-2008 (the local cash crop fell from $230 per kilo to $25 per kilo between 2003 and 2005 .
noLabel	The primary stage was a TX-5 boosted fission bomb in a separate space atop the assembly (so it would not freeze, rendering it inoperable).	The "secondary" fusion stage used liquid deuterium despite the difficulty of handling this material, because this fuel simplified the experiment, and made the results easier to analyze.
noLabel	MPs called for an extraordinary session of parliament to discuss the cartoons, while protestors set Danish dairy products and bacon ablaze.	Al-Menbar Islamic Society MP Mohammed Khaled has demanded that Arab leaders take action: "We are stunned by the silence of the Arab leaders.
noLabel	A fairly recent practice, since the mid-1990s, of the video game industry is the rise of game players as developers of game content.	The rise of video game players as fourth-party developers of game content allows for more open source models of game design, development and engineering.
noLabel	In June 2006, Copeland Lowery amended 35 prior government filings which reported the firm's lobbying revenues and clients between 1998 and 2005.	The firm had failed to disclose at least $755,000 in income from 17 nonprofit organizations and governmental entities, and $635,000 from 18 other clients . 
noLabel	Since the end of World War II, it has been the stated policy of most First World countries to eliminate protectionism through free trade policies enforced by international treaties and organizations such as the World Trade Organization.	Certain policies of First World governments have been criticized as protectionist, however, such as the Common Agricultural Policy in the European Union, longstanding agricultural subsidies and proposed "Buy American" provisions in economic recovery packages in the United States . 
noLabel	Improving the technology of cook stoves will be especially effective for Nigeria which currently has many households that require fuel wood for their cooking methods.	In 2005 a group of countries, called the Coalition for Rainforest Nations , developed a program to reduce the rates of deforestation that contribute to CO2 emissions.
noLabel	The UNRISD report also states, in contradiction to Pagano's research, that growth and equity can be "mutually reinforcing" when supported by "well-thought-out economic and social policies" .	It explains that reducing poverty through growth is difficult when inequality is rampant; wealth and land tends to concentrate in small groups, which in turn excludes the poor from economic participation.
noLabel	The Atomic Energy Act of 1954 automatically classifies "all data concerning (1) design, manufacture, or utilization of atomic weapons; (2) the production of special nuclear material; or (3) the use of special nuclear material in the production of energy".	The government has attempted to censor publications regarding nuclear information in the Scientific American in 1950 and The Progressive in 1979 .
noLabel	Last January, Dr. Francesco Conconi of Ferrara, Italy, reported that encouraging steps had been made in isolating synthetic EPO from naturally occurring EPO in urine samples.	However, research on a reliable test for EPO lags behind research to detect synthetic human growth hormone, another banned substance used by athletes for its steroidlike qualities.
noLabel	Supporters of this view claim that spontaneous order is superior to any order that does not allow individuals to make their own choices of what to produce, what to buy, what to sell, and at what prices, due to the number and complexity of the factors involved.	They further believe that any attempt to implement central planning will result in more disorder, or a less efficient production and distribution of goods and services. 
noLabel	Tracking separates social classes putting the poor and minority children in lower tracks where they receive second-rate education, and the students that are better off are placed in upper tracks where they have many opportunities for success.	Studies have found that in addition to the higher tracks having more extensive curriculum, there is also a disparity among the teachers and instructional resources provided.
noLabel	Regardless of their arguable accuracy, public focus on the disproportionate representation of minorities in violent crime rate statistics has led to both the general racialization of the discussion regarding crime as well as to the emergence of a racial stereotype which characterizes young African American men as "inherently more sinister, evil and dangerous" than the young men of other racial groups, which Katheryn Russell-Brown has dubbed the "criminal black man" stereotype .	Research conducted over the last two decades on the public perceptions of crime reveals that 54% of surveyed White Americans believe that African Americans are more prone to violent behavior . 
noLabel	One source suggests post-Watergate laws amended in 1974 meant to reduce the "influence of wealthy contributors and end payoffs" instead "legitimized PACs" since they "enabled individuals to band together in support of candidates.	" From 1974 to 1984, PACs grew from 608 to 3,803 and donations leaped from $12.5 million to $120 million along with concern over PAC influence in Congress .
noLabel	Currently, the Maine Green Independent Party, the state branch of the Green Party of the United States, calls for the lowering of the voting age to 17 .	Youth suffrage appears to be gaining ground in Massachusetts; three of the four Democratic United States Senate candidates in 2010 supported lowering the voting age .
noLabel	Three reports on the wind variability in the UK issued in 2009, generally agree that variability of wind needs to be taken into account, but it does not make the grid unmanageable; and the additional costs, which are modest, can be quantified .	A 2006 International Energy Agency forum presented costs for managing intermittency as a function of wind-energy's share of total capacity for several countries, as shown:
noLabel	In the wake of the Supreme Court decision Snyder v. Phelps, which held that the Westboro Baptist Church had the right to picket the funerals of dead soldiers on a public sidewalk, Palin asserted that the Court held a double standard for the WBC's speech, as opposed to other religious speech.	On March 2, 2011, she tweeted: "Common sense & decency absent as wacko 'church' allowed hate msgs spewed@ soldiers' funerals but we can't invoke God's name in public square" Palin clarified her tweet the next day: "Obviously my comment meant that when we’re told we can’t say ‘God bless you’ in graduation speeches or pray before a local football game but these wackos can invoke God’s name in their hate speech while picketing our military funerals, it shows ridiculous inconsistency.
noLabel	Subsidies for energy and utilities most often include gasoline and diesel used for transport and for electricity generation; kerosene for lighting and heating; and liquefied petroleum gas for cooking.	Their costs can be higher than for food subsidies, while their targeting efficiency tends to be much lower than for food. 
noLabel	This has led to concerns that minors that play such video games will become influenced by the violence, altering their real-life behavior.	Academic studies have attempted to find a connection between violent video games and the rate of violence and crimes from those that play them; some have stated a connection exists, while others find no link between the matters .
noLabel	The will to believe doctrine was pragmatist philosopher William James' attempt to prove God by showing that the adoption of theism as a hypothesis "works" in a believer's life.	This doctrine depended heavily on James' pragmatic theory of truth where beliefs are proven by how they work when adopted rather than by proofs before they are believed (a form of the hypothetico-deductive method). 
noLabel	Corporate capitalism is a free or mixed market characterized by the dominance of hierarchical, bureaucratic corporations, which are legally required to pursue profit.	State monopoly capitalism was originally a Marxist concept referring to a form of corporate capitalism where the state is used to benefit, protect from competition and promote the interests of dominant or established corporations.
noLabel	Patients with moderate to severe TBI have more problems with cognitive deficits than do those with mild TBI, but several mild TBIs may have an additive effect.	About one in five career boxers is affected by chronic traumatic brain injury (CTBI), which causes cognitive, behavioral, and physical impairments .
noLabel	On August 14, 2009 Brown entered a Kennedy plea, meaning he did not admit guilt but did not contest that prosecutors had evidence to prove his guilt, and was convicted on a felony charge of attempting to commit kidnapping and a misdemeanor petty larceny charge in Cabell County, West Virginia Circuit Court.	Brown was sentenced to three years probation, two years of which were to be spent in home confinement, and agreed to pay restitution and all court costs .
noLabel	Many cite the 2008 United States presidential election as a step forward in race relations: White Americans played a role in electing Barack Obama, the country's first black president .	In fact, Obama received a greater percentage of the white vote (43%), than did the previous Democratic candidate, John Kerry (41%) .
noLabel	In addition to these examinable subjects, lessons in Civics and Moral Education, arts and crafts, music, health education, social studies and physical education are conducted at various levels.	Students are also introduced to project work, receive pastoral care and career guidance, and are to participate in Co-Curricular Activities and Community Involvement Programmes. 
noLabel	However, in a follow up article in the same publication, others criticized the analysis, including Peter Flory, the U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Policy, who began by writing "The essay by Keir Lieber and Daryl Press contains so many errors, on a topic of such gravity, that a Department of Defense response is required to correct the record.	" Regarding reductions in Russian stockpiles, another response stated that "a similarly one-sided examination of [reductions in] U.S. forces would have painted a similarly dire portrait". 
noLabel	Like children's rights, women's rights and refugee rights, minority rights are a legal framework designed to ensure that a specific group which is in a vulnerable, disadvantaged or marginalised position in society, is able to achieve equality and is protected from persecution.	The first post-war international treaty to protect minorities, designed to protect them from the greatest threat to their existence, was the U.N. Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. 
noLabel	The efficacy of gun control legislation at reducing the availability of guns has been challenged by, among others, the testimony of criminals that they do not obey gun control laws, and by the lack of evidence of any efficacy of such laws in reducing violent crime.	The most thorough analysis of the impact of gun control laws, by Kleck, covered 18 major types of gun control and every major type of violent crime or violence (including suicide), and found that gun laws generally had no significant effect on violent crime rates or suicide rates .
noLabel	Iran says its uranium enrichment program is exclusively for peaceful purposes and has enriched uranium to "less than 5 percent," consistent with fuel for a nuclear power plant and significantly below the purity of WEU (around 90%) typically used in a weapons program .	The director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Yukiya Amano, said in 2009 he had not seen any evidence in IAEA official documents that Iran was developing nuclear weapons .
noLabel	In the Canadian general election, 2004 and to a lesser extent in the Canadian general election, 2006, strategic voting was a concern for the federal New Democratic Party.	In the 2004 election, the governing Liberal Party was able to convince many New Democratic voters to vote Liberal in order to avoid a Conservative government.
noLabel	The WBA even stripped a fighter of his championship in 1983 because the fight had been a 15-round bout, shortly after the rule was changed to 12 rounds.	By 1988, to the displeasure of some boxing purists, all fights had been reduced to a maximum of 12 rounds only, partially for safety, and partially for television, as a 12-round bout could be broadcast within an hour, while a 15-round bout could require up to 90 minutes to broadcast.
noLabel	Alternatively, there has also been policy aimed to advance the entire industry as a whole, combining the implementation and technology .	The legislative history outlines the public policy that has taken place starting the 1970s leading up to current energy legislation and what effects it has made on renewable energy, specifically wind.
noLabel	In July 2010, controversy arose when a Caucasian woman, Sara Landriault, was barred from applying for employment in a federal agency because she was not in a racial minority .	This incident led Stockwell Day, president of the Treasury Board of Canada, which oversees federal government employment policies, to announce a review of 'affirmative action' (employment equity) and how it is applied in federal hiring procedures . 
noLabel	Malnutrition in early life is believed to play a role in the rising rates of obesity in the developing world .	Endocrine changes that occur during periods of malnutrition may promote the storage of fat once more food energy becomes available . 
noLabel	They concluded that as Maden reported that 20% of the men with penile cancer were circumcised at birth, the recommendation of circumcision for medical indications remained somewhat controversial and the risks and benefits must be weighed .	The American Academy of Pediatrics made similar criticism, also noting the possibly inaccurate use of self-report to determine circumcision status . 
noLabel	The Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi wanted to privatize it because it was thought to be an inefficient and a source for corruption.	In September 2003, Koizumi's cabinet proposed splitting Japan Post into four separate companies: a bank, an insurance company, a postal service company, and a fourth company to handle the post offices as retail storefronts of the other three. 
noLabel	In May 2010, the Rodong Sinmun announced in an article that North Korea had successfully carried out a nuclear fusion reaction.	The aforementioned article, referring to the alleged test as "a great event that demonstrated the rapidly developing cutting-edge science and technology of the DPRK", also makes mention of efforts by North Korean scientists to develop "safe and environment-friendly new energy", and made no mention of plans to use fusion technology in its nuclear weapons program . 
noLabel	The birth of all Mexican drug cartels is traced to former Mexican Judicial Federal Police agent Miguel Ángel Félix Gallardo ('The Godfather'), who founded the Guadalajara Cartel in 1980 and controlled all illegal drug trade in Mexico and the trafficking corridors across the Mexico-USA border throughout the 1980s .	He started off by smuggling marijuana and opium into the U.S.A., and was the first Mexican drug chief to link up with Colombia's cocaine cartels in the 1980s.
noLabel	As of 2008, the price of grain has increased due to more farming used in biofuels, world oil prices at over $100 a barrel, global population growth, climate change, loss of agricultural land to residential and industrial development, and growing consumer demand in China and India Food riots have recently taken place in many countries across the world .	An epidemic of stem rust on wheat caused by race Ug99 is currently spreading across Africa and into Asia and is causing major concern.
noLabel	Permits continued to be issued by Israel only on a exceptional basis with a 114 being issued during the second half of 2010 .	OCHA described Egypt’s move to regularly operate its crossing with Gaza for special categories of people as a "significant, albeit limited, improvement" . 
noLabel	Violations of these rules may be ruled "fouls" by the referee, who may issue warnings, deduct points, or disqualify an offending boxer, causing an automatic loss, depending on the seriousness and intentionality of the foul.	An intentional foul that causes injury that prevents a fight from continuing usually causes the boxer who committed it to be disqualified.
noLabel	Because of this, other states often try front loading (going as early as possible) to make their say as influential as they can.	In the 2008 presidential primaries two states had all or some of their delegates banned from the convention by the central party organizations for voting too early . 
noLabel	He said, "Estonia condemns Hamas's decision not to extend the cease-fire agreement and to continue using terrorist methods to achieve its goals."	Estonia also called "for an end to all violence and the restoration of the cease-fire agreement, for currently the number of civilian victims is continuously growing" .
noLabel	The reference itself has effectively been rendered a "dead letter" by virtue of the decision of the Supreme Court in Corway.	Furthermore, the Committee is of the view that in a modern Constitution, blasphemy is not a phenomenon against which there should be an express constitutional prohibition. 
noLabel	As found in Genesis 17:1-14, brit milah is considered to be so important that should the eighth day fall on the Sabbath, actions that would normally be forbidden because of the sanctity of the day are permitted in order to fulfill the requirement to circumcise.	The Talmud, when discussing the importance of Milah, compares it to being equal to all other mitzvot based on the gematria for brit of 612 (Tractate Nedarim 32a).
noLabel	Although "safe sex" is used by individuals to refer to protection against both pregnancy and HIV/AIDS or other STI transmissions, the term was primarily derived in response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic.	It is believed that the term of "safe sex" was used in the professional literature in 1984, in the content of a paper on the psychological effect that HIV/AIDS may have on homosexual men.
noLabel	The phenomenon was first noted by the Indian, Nobel Prize–winning economist Amartya Sen in an essay in The New York Review of Books in 1990, and expanded upon in his subsequent academic work.	Sen originally estimated that more than a 100 million women were "missing" (in the sense that their potential existence had been eliminated either through sex selective abortion, infanticide or inadequate nutrition during infancy). 
noLabel	The RTS is characterized by an overhead view, a "mini-map", and the control of both the economic and military aspects of an army.	The rivalry between the two styles of RTS play—Warcraft style, which used GUIs accessed once a building was selected, and C&C style, which allowed construction of any unit from within a permanently visible menu—continued into the start of the next millennium. 
noLabel	Although charter schools may receive less public funding than traditional public schools, a portion of charter schools' operating costs can come from sources outside public funding (such as private funding in the form of donations).	A study funded by the American Federation of Teachers found that in DC charter schools, private funding accounted for $780 per pupil on average and, combined with a higher level of public funding in some charters (mostly due to non-district funding), resulted in considerably higher funding when compared to comparable public schools .
noLabel	Males are given the exclusive rights to inherit the family name and properties and they are viewed as additional status for their family.	Not only that, they are also believed to have a higher economic utility as they can be an additional family labour in agriculture.
noLabel	Multiplayer components allow players to enjoy interaction with other individuals, be it in the form of partnership, competition or rivalry, and provide them with a form of social communication that is almost always missing in single-player oriented games.	In a variety of different multiplayer game types, players may individually compete against two or more human contestants, work cooperatively with a human partner(s) in order to achieve a common goal, supervise activities of other players, or engage in a game type that incorporates any possible combination of the above.
noLabel	College football coaches in Texas and other states are often the highest paid state employees, with some drawing salaries of over five million US dollars annually.	Athletic scholarship programs, unlike academic scholarship programs, cannot cover more than the cost of food, housing, tuition, and other university-related expenses.
noLabel	Since each state has two senators, residents of smaller states have more clout in the Senate than residents of larger states.	But since 1787, the population disparity between large and small states has grown; in 2006, for example, California had seventy times the population of Wyoming .
noLabel	In 2002, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said that each pack of cigarettes sold in the United States costs the nation more than $7 in medical care and lost productivity, around $3400 per year per smoker.	Another study by a team of health economists finds the combined price paid by their families and society is about $41 per pack of cigarettes . 
noLabel	There are some non-technical barriers to the widespread use of renewables, and it is often public policy and political leadership that helps to address these barriers and drive the wider acceptance of renewable energy technologies .	As of 2010, 98 countries have targets for their own renewable energy futures, and have enacted wide-ranging public policies to promote renewables .
noLabel	The second is the case of subjugated, but older and richer culture, which see itself imitated by the new masters, e.g.	the victorious Roman Republic adopted more from the Hellenistic cultures than it imposed in most domains, except such Roman specialties as law and the military. 
noLabel	Critics associated with the Centre for Population and Urban Research at Monash University have argued that both Right and Left factions in the Australian Labor Party have adopted a multicultural stance for the purposes of increasing their support within the party .	A manifestation of this embrace of multiculturalism has been the creation of ethnic branches within the Labor Party and ethnic branch stacking . 
noLabel	The Federal Gun Free School Zone Act of 1995 severely limited where a person may legally carry a firearm, although this was voided by United States v. Lopez as an abuse of the Commerce Clause.	It did this by making it generally unlawful for an armed citizen to travel on any public sidewalk, road, or highway, that passes within one-thousand (1000) feet of the property-line of any K-12 school in the nation.
noLabel	The IANSA member groups Instituto Sou da Paz and Viva Rio campaigned for a complete ban on civilian gun sales in Brazil, in support of the referendum .	A week before the vote, IANSA, an international gun control organization coordinated an international day of support for the Brazilian ban, with demonstrations taking place in Britain, Italy, South Africa, and other countries.
noLabel	In response to criticism of the system, some proponents of capitalism have argued that its advantages are supported by empirical research.	Indices of Economic Freedom show a correlation between nations with more economic freedom (as defined by the indices) and higher scores on variables such as income and life expectancy, including the poor, in these nations.
noLabel	The languages of teaching in private universities are mainly French and English, while Arabic is widely used in religious universities and Armenian in the Armenian university.	The first university opened in Lebanon was the Syrian Protestant College in 1866 (Became the American University of Beirut in 1921).
noLabel	In In re Arundhati Roy ((2002) 3 SCC 343), the Supreme Court of India followed the view taken in the American Supreme Court (Frankfurter, J.)	in Pennekamp v. Florida (328 US 331 : 90 L Ed 1295 (1946)) in which the United States Supreme Court observed: “If men, including judges and journalists, were angels, there would be no problem of contempt of court.
noLabel	In nuclear physics and nuclear chemistry, nuclear fission refers to either a nuclear reaction or a radioactive decay process in which the nucleus of an atom splits into smaller parts (lighter nuclei), often producing free neutrons and photons (in the form of gamma rays), and releasing a very large amount of energy, even by the energetic standards of radioactive decay.	The two nuclei produced are most often of comparable but slightly different sizes, typically with a mass ratio of products of about 3 to 2, for common fissile isotopes .
noLabel	The Canadian government said that while it supported the spirit of the declaration, it contained elements that were "fundamentally incompatible with Canada's constitutional framework," which includes both the Charter of Rights and Freedoms and Section 35, which enshrines aboriginal and treaty rights.	In particular, the Canadian government had problems with Article 19 (which appears to require governments to secure the consent of indigenous peoples regarding matters of general public policy), and Articles 26 and 28 (which could allow for the re-opening or repudiation of historically settled land claims) . 
noLabel	His work on the relationship between law and morality had a significant effect on the laws of Great Britain, helping bring about the decriminalization of homosexuality.	But it was Jeremy Bentham that defended the rights for homosexuality with his essay "Offence against One's Self" but could not be published until in 1978.
noLabel	Participants in the Kenyan study were scheduled for six visits over the two-year follow-up, compared with four visits for the Ugandan trial participants.	In addition to the study visits, men enrolled in the Kenyan trial were encouraged to receive all of their outpatient health care at the study clinics, which enabled researchers to collect information on the safety of the procedure and the number of other sexually transmitted diseases the men had during follow-up. 
noLabel	In the United States, one of the main problems with purchasing green energy through the electrical grid is the current centralized infrastructure that supplies the consumer’s electricity.	This infrastructure has led to increasingly frequent brown outs and black outs, high CO2 emissions, higher energy costs, and power quality issues .
noLabel	The idea is that initial "unchosen inequalities" – prior circumstances over which an individual had no control but which impact his or her success in a given competition for a particular post – these unchosen inequalities should be eliminated as much as possible, according to this conception.	According to Roemer, society should "do what it can to level the playing field so that all those with relevant potential will eventually be admissible to pools of candidates competing for positions .
noLabel	Some informal social negative consequences such as the disapproval of family, loss of reputation, possible loss of employment, etc., are more significant.	There is also strong evidence that increasing the rewards of conformity by providing better employment opportunities at realistic rates of pay can achieve comparable deterrent effect by giving potential offenders more to lose (Tierney:1996, 277).
noLabel	The Unterhaltungssoftware Selbstkontrolle (USK or Voluntary Certification of Entertainment Software) checks every game before release and assigns an age rating to it - either none (white), 6 years of age (yellow), 12 years of age (green), 16 years of age (blue) or 18 years of age (red).	It is forbidden for anyone, retailers, friends or parents alike, to allow a child access to a game for which he or she is underage.
noLabel	Fraser v. Saanich (District) 1995, [BCJ 3100 BCSC] was held explicitly to be a SLAPP, the first known case to be so described.	Justice Singh found plaintiff's conduct to be "reprehensible and deserving of censure", ordering he pay "special costs" [page 48, Strategic Lawsuits Against Public Participation: The British Columbia Experience, RECEIL 19(1) 2010 ISSN 0962 8797] to compensate. 
noLabel	Immigration Service enforcement continued to grow in strength through the 1980s and, in 1992, the service was split to form separate Ports and Enforcement Directorates.	The split did not immediately solve the issue of those “hybrid” ports which dealt with both areas of work or an underlying cause of friction where the Enforcement Directorate tended to draw on the most experienced staff within the Ports Directorate. 
noLabel	The main separatist party, Parti Québécois, attempted to gain sovereignty twice (once in 1980 and again in 1995) and failed by a narrow margin of 1.2% in 1995 .	Since then, in order to remain united, Canada granted Quebec statut particulier, recognizing Quebec as a nation within the united nation of Canada .
noLabel	Palin told the rally attendees that it was time to grow the Tea Party movement and it was important for them to avoid internal bickering with Establishment Republicans .	She told the crowd, “The Tea Party movement is bigger than any one person and is not about any one candidate.” .
noLabel	In addition to its authorized strength, the 509th had attached to it on Tinian 51 civilian and military personnel of Project Alberta, known as the 1st Technical Detachment.	There were two representatives from Washington, D.C., Brigadier General Thomas Farrell, the deputy commander of the Manhattan Project, and Rear Admiral William R. Purnell of the Military Policy Committee.
noLabel	Which gender is disadvantaged by the gap in math and science achievement largely depends on how academic achievement is being measured.	Female students generally have better grades in their math classes, and this gap starts off very minimal but increases with age .
noLabel	On July 8, 2004, after a 19-month trial, Brown was convicted by a Japanese court of attempted indecent assault and destruction of private property and received a one-year suspended prison sentence.	As a result of this incident and others involving crimes committed by U.S. military personnel in Japan, both countries entered into negotiations aimed at modifying the SOFA in July 2003; ultimately, however, no changes were made to the agreement.
noLabel	Legal threats: In this case voters will be made to believe, accurately or otherwise, that they are not legally entitled to vote, or that they are legally obliged to vote a particular way.	Voters who are not confident about their entitlement to vote may also be intimidated by real or implied authority figures who suggest that those who vote when they are not entitled to will be imprisoned, deported or otherwise punished .
noLabel	Education secretary Michael Gove has called for longer school days and a cut in the length of holidays, which he said would improve performance and make life easier for working parents.The reforms could allow state schools to choose to stay open until 4.30pm and introduce a shorter, four-week summer holiday for pupils from September next year, representing a profound change for parents used to tailoring their working hours to the classroom timetable.Gove said the school system had been designed for a 19th-century agricultural economy and risked leaving British children trailing those in Asia.	"It may be the case that there are one or two legislative and bureaucratic obstacles which prevent all schools moving in this direction, but I think it's consistent with the pressures of a modern society.
noLabel	Singapore describes meritocracy as one of its official guiding principles for domestic public policy formulation, placing emphasis on academic credentials as objective measures of merit .	It separated from Malaysia in 1965 after the federal Malaysian government insisted on giving special privileges to the Malays as part of their "birthright" as an "indigenous" people (the majority, 76%, of the island's population are Chinese).
noLabel	Despite relatively greater freedom for Anglo-Saxon women, until the mid-19th century, writers largely assumed that a patriarchal order was a natural order that had always existed .	This perception was not seriously challenged until the 18th century when Jesuit missionaries found matrilineality in native North American peoples .
noLabel	The report sketches an overall scorecard of the countries on the two basic dimensions of pro-poor growth and pro-poor policy intervention: “China clearly scores well on the pro-poor growth side of the card, but neither Brazil nor India do; in Brazil’s case for lack of growth and in India’s case for lack of poverty-reducing growth.	Brazil scores well on the social policies side, but China and India do not; in China’s case progress has been slow in implementing new social policies more relevant to the new market economy (despite historical advantages in this area, inherited from the past regime) and in India’s case the bigger problems are the extent of capture of the many existing policies by non-poor groups and the weak capabilities of the state for delivering better basic public services.” .
noLabel	A series of 129 lectures given by John Paul II during his Wednesday audiences in Rome between September 1979 and November 1984 were later compiled and published as a single work entitled ‘Theology of the Body’, an extended meditation on human sexuality.	He extended it to the condemnation of abortion, euthanasia and virtually all capital punishment, calling them all a part of the "culture of death" that is pervasive in the modern world.
noLabel	The Legal international framework governing the development of Nuclear weapons is the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty of 1968, which has been signed by most countries and bans the development of nuclear weapons, but not of nuclear power.	The question of whether or not a state can withdraw from the accords has been the subject of a prolonged international debate.
noLabel	In addition to chemical, nonradioactive carcinogens, tobacco and tobacco smoke contain small amounts of lead-210 (210Pb) and polonium-210 (210Po) both of which are radioactive carcinogens.	The presence of polonium-210 in mainstream cigarette smoke has been experimentally measured at levels of 0.0263–0.036 pCi (0.97–1.33 mBq), which is equivalent to about 0.1 pCi per milligram of smoke (4 mBq/mg); or about 0.81 pCi of lead 210 per gram of dry condensed smoke (30 Bq/kg). 
noLabel	Following the invasion he criticized the Bush Administration's conduct of the occupation, and he later pushed for "significant policy changes" in the Iraq War .	He criticized The Pentagon on a number of occasions, most notably in December 2004, concerning low troop strength in Iraq, and has called for a diversification of Iraqi national forces to better represent the multiple ethnic groups contained within the country. 
noLabel	On 31 October 1999 (the 482nd anniversary of Reformation Day, Martin Luther's posting of the 95 Theses), representatives of the Vatican and the Lutheran World Federation (LWF) signed a Joint Declaration on the Doctrine of Justification, as a gesture of unity.	The signing was a fruit of a theological dialogue that had been going on between the LWF and the Vatican since 1965.
noLabel	The People's Republic of China is signatory to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, but has not ratified it.	All citizens of the People's Republic of China who have reached the age of 18 have the right to vote and stand for election, regardless of ethnicity, race, sex, occupation, family background, religious belief, education, property status, or length of residence, except persons deprived of political rights according to law. 
noLabel	The third theory of deviance is the sociological theory which views all behavior as well as conformity as the product of the society.	These sociologists point out that what is deviant from place to place is according to cultural norms, behavior and individuals become deviant as others define them that way and what and who a society defines as deviant reflects who has and does not have social power .
noLabel	On August 10, 2007, with National Public Radio on "All Things Considered," Lieutenant General Douglas Lute, National Security Adviser to the President and Congress for all matters pertaining to the United States Military efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, expressed support for a draft to alleviate the stress on the Army's all-volunteer force.	He cited the fact that repeated deployments place much strain upon one soldier's family and himself which, in turn, can affect retention . 
noLabel	However, by early 2009 that figure had increased to more than 2 million and a year later it rose past the 2.5million mark.	The peak in unemployment, however, came some two years after the recession, in December 2011, with close to 2.7million unemployed, accounting for 8.4% - marginally higher than the unemployment rate in the United States .
noLabel	While openness and accountability are usually considered cornerstones of a democratic system, the act of casting a vote and the content of a voter's ballot are usually an important exception.	The secret ballot is a relatively modern development, but it is now considered crucial in most free and fair elections, as it limits the effectiveness of intimidation.
noLabel	Since the taboo status of the work they performed afforded them an effective monopoly in their trades, some succeeded economically and even occasionally obtained samurai status through marrying or the outright purchase of troubled houses.	Some historians point out that such exclusive rights originated in ancient times, granted by shrines, temples, kuge, or the imperial court, which held authority before the Shogunate system was established.
noLabel	The report was published on 2 September 2011 after being delayed, reportedly to allow Israel and Turkey to continue reconciliation talks .	The commission determined Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip to be legal, but stated that the "decision to board the vessels with such substantial force at a great distance from the blockade zone and with no final warning immediately prior to the boarding was excessive and unreasonable."
noLabel	They are prohibited as well from hitting the back, back of the neck or head (called a "rabbit-punch") or the kidneys.	They are prohibited from holding the ropes for support when punching, holding an opponent while punching, or ducking below the belt of their opponent (dropping below the waist of your opponent, no matter the distance between).
noLabel	Feminist economists often support use of the human development index as a composite statistic in order to assess countries by overall level of human development, as opposed to other measures.	The HDI takes into account a broad array of measures beyond monetary considerations including life expectancy, literacy, education, and standards of living for countries worldwide .
noLabel	It was not until the turn of the century that smoking women would appear in paintings and photos, giving a chic and charming impression.	Impressionists like Vincent van Gogh, who was a pipe smoker himself, would also begin to associate smoking with gloom and fin-du-siècle fatalism. 
noLabel	Media accounts noted that the opposition in the Senate was largely from tobacco farming states, particularly Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia, with the only Democrat in opposition being Kay Hagan, from North Carolina.	Notable exceptions were Virginia Senators Jim Webb and Mark Warner who supported the measure, despite the state's connection to the tobacco industry . 
noLabel	The Act specifies that 37% of the package is to be devoted to tax incentives equaling $288 billion and $144 billion or 18% is allocated to state and local fiscal relief (more than 90% of the state aid is going to Medicaid and education).	The remaining 45% or $357 billion is allocated to federal spending programs such as transportation, communication, waste water and sewer infrastructure improvements; energy efficiency upgrades in private and federal buildings; extension of federal unemployment benefits; and scientific research programs. 
noLabel	The Kingdom of Great Britain was created by the political union of the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of Scotland on 1 May 1707 .	This event was the result of the Treaty of Union that was agreed on 22 July 1706, and then ratified by both the Parliament of England and Parliament of Scotland each passing an Act of Union in 1707 .
noLabel	New Side Presbyterians in 1747 set up the College of New Jersey, in the town of Princeton; much later it was renamed Princeton University.	Rhode Island College was begun by the Baptists in 1764, and in 1804 it was renamed Brown University in honor of a benefactor.
noLabel	As such her role in history is of great significance as her son Constantine legalised Christianity across the Roman Empire, and became a convert himself - ending centuries of mistreatment of Christians and altering the course of world history.	Similarly, Saint Monica was a pious Christian and mother of Saint Augustine of Hippo, who after a wayward youth, converted to Christianity and became one of the most influential Christian Theologians of all history.
noLabel	As a result of feminism and other social and political movements that have removed barriers to the entry of women into professions that were traditionally male strongholds, in the latter quarter of the twentieth century many women in a handful of countries sought ordination into the Catholic priesthood.	The Church is convinced that it is not free to change this practice, which the Church traced back to Jesus himself, and has declared the matter closed for discussion. 
noLabel	The temple, which can be dated to the 2nd century BC, rests on the foundation of an older temple of the 6th century, and close beside it were found the remains of a yet earlier temple, dating from the 9th or even the 10th century.	The votive offerings in clay, amber, bronze, ivory and lead found in great profusion within the precinct range, dating from the 9th to the 4th centuries BC, supply invaluable evidence for early Spartan art. 
noLabel	Though there have been several definitions of voluntary and involuntary unemployment in the economics literature, a simple distinction is often applied.	Voluntary unemployment is attributed to the individual's decisions, whereas involuntary unemployment exists because of the socio-economic environment (including the market structure, government intervention, and the level of aggregate demand) in which individuals operate.
noLabel	A proposal to hold a full parliamentary inquiry into boxing is to be considered by MPs today as political concern mounts over the sport's safety record.	Derek Wyatt, the Labour MP for Sittingbourne and Sheppey and a member of the select committee on sport which meets today, is to propose that an inquiry be held so that new safeguards can be introduced.
noLabel	In February 2012, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved the construction of two additional reactors at the Vogtle Electric Generating Plant, the first reactors to be approved in over 30 years since the Three Mile Island accident, but NRC Chairman Gregory Jaczko cast a dissenting vote citing safety concerns stemming from Japan's 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, and saying "I cannot support issuing this license as if Fukushima never happened" .	One week after Southern received the license to begin major construction on the two new reactors, a dozen environmental and anti-nuclear groups are suing to stop the Plant Vogtle expansion project, saying "public safety and environmental problems since Japan's Fukushima Daiichi nuclear reactor accident have not been taken into account" . 
noLabel	Most of the nutrients within the soil of a tropical rainforest occur near the surface because of the rapid turnover time and decomposition of organisms and leaves .	Because of this, the buttress roots occur at the surface so the trees can maximize uptake and actively compete with the rapid uptake of other trees.
noLabel	The differences in National Assessment for Educational Progress (NAEP) math scores between boys and girls nearly double from the 9-year olds to the 17-year olds .	This inconsistency in which gender shows more achievement could be due to the fact that class grades, especially in middle and high school, usually depend on a student’s completion of homework assignments, and studies have shown that girls report spending more time on homework than boys .The gender gap in mathematics is particularly large among the highest-achieving students; for example, there is a 2.1-1 male-female ratio among students who score an 800 on the math portion of the SAT . 
noLabel	Early uses of waterpower date back to Mesopotamia and ancient Egypt, where irrigation has been used since the 6th millennium BC and water clocks had been used since the early 2nd millennium BC.	Other early examples of water power include the Qanat system in ancient Persia and the Turpan water system in ancient China.
noLabel	Drugs commonly considered capable of recreational use include alcohol, tobacco, caffeine, and drugs within the scope of the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and Convention on Psychotropic Substances.	Psychopharmacologist Ronald K. Siegel refers to intoxication as the "fourth drive", arguing that the human instinct to seek mind-altering substances (psychoactive drugs) has so much force and persistence that it functions like the human desire to satisfy hunger, thirst, and the need for shelter .
noLabel	The inner ring at the closed end of the sheath is used to insert the condom inside the vagina and to hold it in place during intercourse.	The rolled outer ring at the open end of the sheath remains outside the vagina and covers part of the external genitalia.
noLabel	These included renewed applications, resurrected appeals, judicial review, MPs representations, applications to stay on the basis of marriage, human rights appeals on the basis of family ties and the problems associated with obtaining travel documentation that would actually allow the removal to take place.	Maintaining control of the person during this process was, and is, seen as essential to successfully enforcing immigration removals for adults. 
noLabel	In addition, copyright, in most cases, does not prohibit one from acts such as modifying, defacing, or destroying his or her own legitimately obtained copy of a copyrighted work, so long as duplication is not involved.	However, in countries that implement moral rights, a copyright holder can in some cases successfully prevent the mutilation or destruction of a work that is publicly visible.
noLabel	The terrain in both parks is very rugged, and with only one park ranger per , it is impossible to fend off the loggers .	The parks are being targeted because all the rare rosewoods and ebonies outside of Masoala and Marojejy national parks have already been logged . 
noLabel	It was initially limited to protecting European refugees after World War II but a 1967 Protocol removed the geographical and time limits, expanding the Convention's scope.	Because the convention was approved in Geneva, it is often referred to as "the Geneva Convention," though it is not one of the Geneva Conventions specifically dealing with allowable behavior in time of war . 
noLabel	A focus on knowledge coming from self, from the human, has a direct implication for new forms of scholarship and instruction, and was the foundation for what is commonly known as the humanities.	This disposition toward knowledge manifested in not simply the translation and propagation of ancient texts, but also their adaptation and expansion.
noLabel	In Ontario, the Liquor License Board, under the Ministry of Consumer and Commercial Relations, publishes a book listing of what can and cannot be published in print and what can be broadcasted in advertising for wine, beer, and cider products.	All commercials that are intended for children under 12 years of age must follow the Broadcast Code for Advertising to Children and is managed by the Children’s Committee of the Advertising Standards Council .
noLabel	Less than optimal interstage designs have resulted in the secondary failing to work entirely on multiple shots, known as a "fissile fizzle".	The Koon shot of Operation Castle is a good example; a small flaw allowed the neutron flux from the primary to prematurely begin heating the secondary, weakening the compression enough to prevent any fusion. 
noLabel	On September 15, 2008, it was disclosed that: a) Rangel had omitted from his financial reports details regarding his sale of a Washington, DC home; b) discrepancies existed in the values he listed for a property he owns in Sunny Isles, Florida (varying from $50,000 to $500,000); and c) inconsistencies appeared in his investment fund reporting.	He apologized, saying "I owed my colleagues and the public adherence to a higher standard of care, not only as a member of Congress, but even more as the chair of the House Ways and Means Committee."
noLabel	Another reason, strange to say, was that the government feared opening up the employment market to people born in the UK who had since become naturalised foreign citizens.	At that time they had no right to come back to the UK, (and were apparently not wanted), and the government did not want to raise their expectations that the rules would be relaxed . 
noLabel	The UN's chief investigator on torture, Manfred Nowak, states that "if the files released through WikiLeaks pointed to clear violations of the United Nations Convention Against Torture the Obama administration had an obligation to investigate them.	" The Convention, according to Nowak, forbids the US from turning over detainees to the Iraqi government, if doing so meant they might be subjected to torture .
noLabel	Such arguments, which usually refer to the notion of personal liberty, have themselves been criticised by Nobel Prize-winning economist Amartya Sen who defended smoke-free regulations on several grounds .	Among other things, Sen argued that while a person may be free to acquire the habit of smoking, they thereby restrict their own freedom in the future given that the habit of smoking is hard to break .
noLabel	The term refugee is often used to include displaced persons who may fall outside the legal definition in the Convention, either because they have left their home countries because of war and not because of a fear of persecution, or because they have been forced to migrate within their home countries.	The Convention Governing the Specific Aspects of Refugee Problems in Africa, adopted by the Organization of African Unity in 1969, employs a definition expanded from the Convention's, including people who left their countries of origin not only because of persecution but also due to acts of external aggression, occupation, domination by foreign powers or serious disturbances of public order . 
noLabel	Furthermore, in the case of far-right, far-left and regionalist parties in the national parliaments of much of the European Union, mainstream political parties may form an informal cordon sanitaire which applies a policy of non-cooperation towards those "Outsider Parties" present in the legislature which are viewed as 'anti-system' or otherwise unacceptable for government.	Cordon Sanitaires, however, have been increasingly abandoned over the past two decades in multi-party democracies as the pressure to construct broad coalitions in order to win elections - along with the increased willingness of outsider parties themselves to participate in government - has led to many such parties entering electoral and government coalitions . 
noLabel	There is less agitation for ending the monarchy of New Zealand and creating a New Zealand republic than in neighbouring Australia, where Australian republicanism is stronger.	Supporters of the monarchy claim that for New Zealand, "..monarchy summarises the inheritance of a thousand years of constitutional government and our links with a glorious past," . 
noLabel	There is little consensus on the precise beginning of the age of Enlightenment; the beginning of the 18th century (1701) or the middle of the 17th century (1650) are often used as an approximate starting point .	If taken back to the mid-17th century, the Enlightenment would trace its origins to Descartes' Discourse on Method, published in 1637.
noLabel	Brzezinski criticized the Clinton presidency as having a foreign policy which lacked "discipline and passion" and subjected the U.S. to "eight years of drift.	" The short-term election cycle coupled with the inability to stick with long term decisions motivates presidents to focus on acts which will appease the citizenry and avoid difficult long-term choices.
noLabel	In Tunisia, Abdulaziz Othman Altwaijri, president of the Islamic Organization for Education, Science and Culture (the Islamic world's counterpart to UNESCO) called the drawings "A form of racism and discrimination that one must counter by all available means."	He said, "It's regrettable to state today, as we are calling for dialogue, that other parties feed animosity and hate and attack sacred symbols of Muslims and of their prophet". 
noLabel	The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women affirms a range of economic, social and cultural rights to women.	The ILO Conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) protect a range of work related economic, social and cultural rights .
noLabel	According to their research, while culturally homogeneous groups experience little to no cultural conflict, as all the members share the same set of "conduct norms", culturally heterogeneous groups, such as modern industrial nations with large immigrant populations, display heightened competition between sets of cultural norms which, in turn, leads to an increase in violence and crime.	Societies which have high levels of cultural diversity in their population, it is claimed, are more likely to have higher rates of violent crime . 
noLabel	In Israel, the Muslim and Christian Arab minority are exempt from mandatory service, as are permanent residents such as the Druze of the Golan Heights.	Male Ultra-Orthodox Jews may apply for a deferment of draft to study in Yeshiva, and the deferment tends to become an exemption, while female religious Jews can be exempted after presenting "religious declaration" to the IDF authorities, and some (primarily National Religious or Modern Orthodox) choose to volunteer for national service instead.
noLabel	By tradition a deposed monarch who has not freely abdicated, though no longer head of state, is allowed to use their monarchical title as a courtesy title for their lifetime.	Hence, though he ceased to be Greek king in 1973 (in a disputed referendum during the Regime of the Colonels), or in 1974 (in a referendum after the reestablishment of democracy), it is still standard to refer to the deposed king as Constantine II of Greece.
noLabel	The classic case of a corrupt, exploitive dictator often given is the regime of Marshal Mobutu Sese Seko, who ruled the Democratic Republic of the Congo (which he renamed Zaire) from 1965 to 1997.	It is said that usage of the term kleptocracy gained popularity largely in response to a need to accurately describe Mobutu's regime.
noLabel	However, in the online instance there has been proof that if someone has a reference group that speaks up for them than he or she will speak up as well .	In an online situation just having one person be there to encourage a minority point of view even if it differs can put an end to a spiral of silence.
noLabel	Despite the Vatican’s intransigence regarding the acceptability of condoms for the purpose of preventing transmission of the HIV/AIDS virus, a number of episcopal conferences have suggested that condom use may be acceptable in some circumstances to prevent AIDS.	One of the first episcopal conferences to take such a stance was the French Bishops Council which asserted in 1989 that, “The whole population and especially the young should be informed of the risks.
noLabel	But nuclei differed from ordinary drops in one important way: they were electrically charged, and that was known to counteract the surface tension.	The charge of a uranium nucleus, we found, was indeed large enough to overcome the effect of the surface tension almost completely; so the uranium nucleus might indeed resemble a very wobbly unstable drop, ready to divide itself at the slightest provocation, such as the impact of a single neutron.
noLabel	More preferable from a strategic point of view is a nuclear weapon mounted onto a missile, which can use a ballistic trajectory to deliver the warhead over the horizon.	While even short range missiles allow for a faster and less vulnerable attack, the development of long-range intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) and submarine-launched ballistic missiles (SLBMs) has given some nations the ability to plausibly deliver missiles anywhere on the globe with a high likelihood of success. 
noLabel	Most votes, including quorum votes, are done electronically, and allow members to vote yea or nay or present or open .	Members insert a voting ID card and can change their votes during the last five minutes if they choose; in addition, paper ballots are used on some occasions—yea indicated by green and nay by red .
noLabel	One of the major successes of recent times, (as noted by Peter Tompkins above), had been the establishment by the Immigration Service of a team of Airline Liaison Officers whose job was to stop inadmissible passengers at their point of departure abroad.	The first of these had been posted to New Delhi as long before as 1993 and quickly established good links with local police and immigration officials.
noLabel	When the atrocities committed by Nazi Germany became apparent after the Second World War, the consensus within the world community was that the United Nations Charter did not sufficiently define the rights it referenced .	A universal declaration that specified the rights of individuals was necessary to give effect to the Charter's provisions on human rights .
noLabel	Many do believe that, under the guise of a development project (aimed at poverty reduction and protecting the environment), Europe's real motive to cooperate in Prodesis would be to secure European trade and investment in Mexico.	Since social or political instability (or perceived instability) would pose a threat to the economic partnership, the EU would contribute to a counter-insurgency project. 
noLabel	As all business people know, it is easier to create a new niche than it is to go head-to-head with a firm already well established in the market place.	And if one must go head-to-head, one must find some way to do things differently to find an identity; either have higher quality and/or lower prices, faster delivery and/or optionalization, etc.
noLabel	Crucially for poverty reduction, the latter two at least are labor-intensive, helping to ensure that growth in these sectors will be poverty-reducing.	However, low value-added, price instability and unsustainability in these commodity sectors means they should be used only temporarily as stepping stones in the path to economic development.
noLabel	Ruling princes often endorsed and fostered figures and even attempted to apply their ideas of government in what was known as Enlightened Despotism.	The Enlightenment flourished until about 1790–1800, after which the emphasis on reason gave way to Romanticism's emphasis on emotion and a Counter-Enlightenment gained force. 
noLabel	Most private schools are not-for-profit Catholic like Adamson University (Vincentian), Ateneo de Manila University (Jesuit), Colegio de San Juan de Letran (Dominican), De La Salle University (Christian Brothers), Don Bosco Technical College (Salesian), Saint Louis University, Baguio City (CICM), San Beda College (Benedictine), University of San Carlos (SVD), and the University of Santo Tomas (Dominican).	However, there are also non-Catholic not-for-profit sectarian institutions such as Silliman University (Presbyterian), Trinity University of Asia (Anglican), Philippine Christian University (Methodist), Adventist University of the Philippines (Seventh-day Adventists), and New Era University (Iglesia ni Cristo).
noLabel	With his help, French former minister and Resistance fighter Pierre-Henri Teitgen submitted a report to the Assembly proposing a list of rights to be protected, selecting a number from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights just agreed to in New York, and defining how the enforcing judicial mechanism might operate.	After extensive debates, the Assembly sent its final proposal to the Council's Committee of Ministers, which convened a group of experts to draft the Convention itself. 
noLabel	It suggested that if one is planning a restful holiday and they do not wish to inhibit their bodybuilding lifestyle too much, they should overtrain before taking the holiday, so the body can rest easily and recuperate and grow.	Overtraining can be used advantageously, as when a bodybuilder is purposely overtrained for a brief period of time to super compensate during a regeneration phase.
noLabel	However, if a country was not able to meet their obligation, their target would get added to their next commitment period.	The authors of these proposals see this as a solely government-to-government agreement; private entities would not participate in the compensation trades .
noLabel	The first of these events was India and Pakistan both conducting nuclear tests; the Japanese were troubled by a perceived reluctance on the part of the international community to condemn the two countries' actions, since one of the reasons Japan had opted to join the NPT was that it had anticipated severe penalties for those states who defied the international consensus against further nuclear proliferation.	Also, Japan and other nations feared that an Indian nuclear arsenal could cause a localized nuclear arms race with China . 
noLabel	The result would be a super-critical mass that, when bombarded with neutrons, would undergo fission at a rapid rate and create the desired explosion.	The weapons envisaged in 1942 were the two gun-type weapons, Little Boy (uranium) and Thin Man (plutonium), and the Fat Man plutonium implosion bomb. 
noLabel	The provision of humanitarian aid or humanitarian response consists of the provision of vital services (such as food aid to prevent starvation) by aid agencies, and the provision of funding or in-kind services (like logistics or transport), usually through aid agencies or the government of the affected country.	Humanitarian aid is distinguished from humanitarian intervention, which involves armed forces protecting civilians from violent oppression or genocide by state-supported actors. 
noLabel	They begin and end with the criminals who commit them," controversially equating the accusations of her role in the shooting to a "blood libel" .	Following her response, an ABC News-Washington Post poll found that 46% of respondents viewed Palin's actions after the shooting unfavorably, while 30% approved and 24% had no opinion .
noLabel	Tsang later said he was merely changing the slogan to "big market, small government," where small government is defined as less than 20% of GDP.	In a debate between Tsang and his rival, Alan Leong, before the 2007 Chief Executive election, Leong introduced the topic and jokingly accused Tsang of angering Friedman to death.
noLabel	In practice during World War II, utter annihilation of cities from the air had already been visited upon the enemies of the Allied forces, both in Europe and Japan, well before use of the Atomic Bomb, and with perhaps even deadlier results.	The incendiary attacks on Dresden, Germany, and Tokyo, Japan, e.g., in efforts to finally force surrender and end both the European and Pacific Theaters, set the precedent for the concepts of Total War and MAD.
noLabel	A hereditary dictatorship, or family dictatorship, in political science terms a personalistic regime, is a form of dictatorship that occurs in a nominally or formally republican regime, but operates in practice like an absolute monarchy, in that political power passes within the dictator's family.	Thus, although the key leader is a called president or prime minister rather than a king or emperor, power is transmitted between members of the same family due to the overwhelming authority of the leader. 
noLabel	Additionally, the NRA has litigated against legislation such as the Brady Bill on the grounds that it conflicted with the Tenth Amendment, not the Second Amendment.	Because the NRA considers gun ownership to be a civil right, the organization calls itself the "oldest civil rights organization in the United States", as it was founded in 1871 . 
noLabel	The vast majority of countries set majority at 18, but ages as low as 14 and as high as 21 also exist.	The word majority here refers to having greater years and being of full age; it is opposed to minority, the state of being a minor.
noLabel	Despite the release of intelligence information from the American and Israeli sources, the attack on the Syrian site was initially controversial.	Some commentators have argued that at the time of the attack the site had no obvious barbed wire or air defenses that would normally ring a sensitive military facility .
noLabel	An exception is that lobbyists who earn less than $3,000 per client for each fiscal quarter, or whose total lobbying expenses are less than $11,500 each quarter, do not need to register .	Part-time lobbyists are exempt from registering unless they spend more than 20% of their working hours doing lobbying activities in any quarter.
noLabel	said, “In the wake of the Imus affair, I began to think that the African-American community must be consistent in its outrage.” The Clifton, Maryland minister has also said, “Why are these corporations making these images normative and mainstream?” .. “I can talk about this in the church until I am blue in the face, but we need to take it outside.” The NAACP and the National Congress of Black Women also have called for the reform of images on videos and on television.	Julian Bond said that in a segregated society, people get their impressions of other groups from what they see in videos and what they hear in music . 
noLabel	Circumvention is an inherent problem for those wishing to censor the Internet, because filtering and blocking do not remove content from the Internet and as long as there is at least one publicly accessible uncensored system, it will often be possible to gain access to otherwise censored material.	However, circumvention may not be very useful to non tech-savvy users and so blocking and filtering remain effective means of censoring the Internet for many users . 
noLabel	Genetic engineers may someday develop transgenic plants which would allow for irrigation, drainage, conservation, sanitary engineering, and maintaining or increasing yields while requiring fewer fossil fuel derived inputs than conventional crops.	Such developments would be particularly important in areas which are normally arid and rely upon constant irrigation, and on large scale farms. 
noLabel	The work of George Akerlof and Janet Yellen on efficiency wages as based on fairness provides an example of a feminist economic model of a economic actor.	In their work, agents are not hyperrational, isolated monads, but are instead concerted with fairness, capable of experiencing jealousy, and interested in personal connections.
noLabel	Video game arcades are still relatively popular in Japan; for every arcade game released in the US, nine are released in Japan.	The history of the Japanese arcade is very significant in the story of the decline of the American arcade, and in the shape of game design in general.
noLabel	However, too few of the neutrons produced by 238U fission are energetic enough to induce further fissions in 238U, so no chain reaction is possible with this isotope.	Instead, bombarding 238U with slow neutrons causes it to absorb them (becoming 239U) and decay by beta emission to 239Np which then decays again by the same process to 239Pu; that process is used to manufacture 239Pu in breeder reactors.
noLabel	The 1983 Code of Canon Law states, "A man before he has completed his sixteenth year of age, and likewise a woman before she has completed her fourteenth year of age, cannot enter a valid marriage" .	According to The Disappearance of Childhood by Neil Postman, the Christian Church of the Middle Ages considered the age of accountability, when a person could be tried and even executed as an adult, to be age 7. 
noLabel	On 2 February 2009, the thirtieth anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in Iran, Iran launched its first domestically produced satellite Omid (meaning "Hope") in to space.	 Iran's President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad described the successful launching of the Omid data-processing satellite as a very big source of pride for Iran and said the project improved Iran's status in the world .
noLabel	On June 20, 2008, the Barnstable Superior Court dismissed four of five counts against the MEPA certificate that had been filed by opposition groups and the Town of Barnstable.	The fifth count was not considered ripe for a ruling since the matter was still pending before a state agency . 
noLabel	Of a champion liar.But lying was just part of the artillery Armstrong deployed to keep the deception in place and to deny that he used performance-enhancing drugs in the course of cheating his way to seven Tour de France victories.The deception was outlined in meticulous and shocking detail over hundreds of pages in the United States Anti-Doping Agency's (Usada) report released last week.	Based on dozens of interviews, including with ex-team mates, the report accuses Armstrong and his handlers of being "engaged in a massive and long-running scheme to use drugs, cover their tracks, intimidate witnesses, tarnish reputations, lie to hearing panels and the press and do whatever was necessary to conceal the truth".Armstrong didn't just take drugs: he was the enforcer of a small mafia within professional cycling that moved ruthlessly against anyone who threatened to expose him or his collaborators.
noLabel	From August 8 to August 20, 1955, the United Nations held the International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva, Switzerland.	During 1956, an IAEA Statute Conference was held to draft the founding documents for the IAEA, and the IAEA Statute was completed at a conference in 1957. 
noLabel	In occupied Poland and Soviet territories, thousands of Jews fled into the swamps or forests and joined the partisans, although the partisan movements did not always welcome them.	In Lithuania and Belarus, an area with a heavy concentration of Jews, and also an area which suited partisan operations, Jewish partisan groups saved thousands of Jewish civilians from extermination.
noLabel	In almost all cases it is not seriously suggested by proponents of the arguments that they are irrefutable, merely that they make one worldview seem significantly more likely than the other.	However, since an assessment of the weight of evidence depends on the prior probability that is assigned to each worldview, arguments that a theist finds convincing may seem thin to an atheist and vice-versa . 
noLabel	Institutional and policy factors included formal pro-deforestation policies on land development (40%), economic growth including colonization and infrastructure improvement (34%), and subsidies for land-based activities (26%); property rights and land-tenure insecurity (44%); and policy failures such as corruption, lawlessness, or mismanagement (42%).	The main technological factor was the poor application of technology in the wood industry (45%), which leads to wasteful logging practices.
noLabel	Burma is one of three countries that still predominantly uses a non-metric system of measure, according to the CIA Factbook .	The common units of measure are unique to Burma, but the government web pages use both imperial units and metric units .
noLabel	It is used to elect the leaders of the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats in the United Kingdom and the leader of the Liberal Party of Canada in a national primary and in the elections of city mayors in a number of countries.	IRV is used to elect the mayor in cities such as London in the United Kingdom (in the variant known as supplementary vote) and Dunedin and Wellington in New Zealand . 
noLabel	A spy breaking the host country's laws may be deported, imprisoned, or even executed - especially in wartime, a summary execution may well be the penalty.	A spy breaking his/her own country's laws can be imprisoned for espionage or/and treason, or even executed, as the Rosenbergs were.
noLabel	One response that has been adopted by many organizations concerned with health and environment is the promotion of active travel, which seeks to promote walking and cycling as safe and attractive alternatives to motorized transport .	Given that many journeys are for relatively short distances, there is considerable scope to replace car use with walking or cycling, though in many settings this may require some infrastructure modification. 
noLabel	"The committee has expressed serious concerns about the late start and slow pace of the proceedings, their insufficient transparency and the participation of victims and witnesses.	Out of the 36 incidents relating to Gaza described in the fact-finding mission report, more than one third remain unresolved or without a clear status over two years after the conflict.
noLabel	Some anarcho-communists oppose the majoritarian nature of direct democracy, feeling that it can impede individual liberty and opt in favour of a non-majoritarian form of consensus democracy, similar to Proudhon's position on direct democracy .	Henry David Thoreau, who did not self-identify as an anarchist but argued for "a better government" and is cited as an inspiration by some anarchists, argued that people should not be in the position of ruling others or being ruled when there is no consent.
noLabel	The Conference also requested the Secretariat to assist States in their efforts to collect and provide information on their self-assessment and their analysis of implementation efforts and to report on those efforts to the Conference.	In addition, several countries, already during this session of the CoSP, expressed their readiness to support, on an interim basis, a review mechanism that would combine the self-assessment component with a review process supported by the Secretariat. 
noLabel	This is due to the fact that to be granted sanctuary by a state indicates that the state granting sanctuary regards the asylee as being illegally persecuted by the nation they fled from.	Rendering the true victim of persecution to their persecutor is a particularly odious violation of a principle called non-refoulement, part of the customary and trucial Law of Nations. 
noLabel	Throughout history, most religions and individuals like Mahatma Gandhi have preached that humans are capable of eliminating individual violence and organizing societies through purely nonviolent means.	Gandhi himself once wrote: “A society organized and run on the basis of complete non-violence would be the purest anarchy.” Modern political ideologies which espouse similar views include pacifist varieties of voluntarism, mutualism, anarchism and libertarianism.
noLabel	Upon returning to the US from the Netherlands, on 29 July, Appelbaum was detained for three hours at the airport by US agents, according to anonymous sources .	The sources told Cnet that Appelbaum's bag was searched, receipts from his bag were photocopied, and his laptop was inspected, although in what manner was unclear .
noLabel	The Age of Enlightenment reached Poland later than in Germany or Austria, as szlachta (nobility) culture (Sarmatism) together with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth political system (Golden Freedoms) were in deep crisis.	The period of Polish Enlightenment began in the 1730s–40s, peaked in the reign of Poland's last king, Stanisław August Poniatowski (second half of the 18th century), went into decline with the Third Partition of Poland (1795), and ended in 1822, replaced by Romanticism in Poland.
noLabel	Even though, logically, the same words should convey the same meaning the volume, rate, and emphasis placed on those words can change the meaning of the phrase.	The example given by Huseman took the sentence “I would like to help you” and simply by placing the emphases on the words I, Like, Help, You in four different sentences changes the meaning of the phrase.
noLabel	Bravo was the worst U.S. nuclear accident, but many of its component problems—unpredictably large yields, changing weather patterns, unexpected fallout contamination of populations and the food supply—occurred during other atmospheric nuclear weapons tests by other countries as well.	Concerns over worldwide fallout rates eventually led to the Partial Test Ban Treaty in 1963, which limited signatories to underground testing.
noLabel	The Color of Fear, a film by Lee Mun Wah is material that provides a well thought out discourse for interminority racism on a personal level.	Lee invited eight men to a cottage to spend the weekend while they engaged in an intellectual, dramatic and emotional discussion about race.
noLabel	Burma's military rulers have given a date for United Nations human rights envoy Paulo Sérgio Pinheiro to begin a five-day visit on 11 and 15 November.	Pinheiro, known officially as the UN's special rapporteur on human rights in Burma, has warned: "If they don't give me full co-operation, I'll go to the plane, and I'll go out."
noLabel	Despite a number of invitations, the Court has so far refused to apply the protections of this article to same-sex marriage.	The Court has defended this on the grounds that the article was intended to apply only to different-sex marriage, and that a wide margin of appreciation must be granted to parties in this area. 
noLabel	IRV is used by several jurisdictions in the United States, including San Francisco, Oakland, California, and Minneapolis and Saint Paul, Minnesota .	United States private associations that use IRV include the Hugo Awards for science fiction, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in selection of the Oscar for Best Picture, and more than fifty colleges and universities for student elections .
noLabel	Despite regulations, a 2009 report shows that three quarters of all food advertising during children's television programs were outside of law's boundaries.	Government attempts to put a heavy burden on food marketers in order to prevent the issue, but food marketers enjoy the benefits of the First Amendment which limits government's power to prevent advertising against children.
noLabel	Studies have also shown that there are tangible benefits to violence in action games such as increased ability to process visual information quickly and accurately.	This has led to support for the development of action games that are non-violent which will allow players to retain the positive visual processing benefits without the negatives associated with violence . 
noLabel	For example, the number of workers per retiree was 5.1 in 1960; this declined to 3.0 in 2010 and is projected to decline to 2.2 by 2030 .	These programs are also affected by per-person costs, which are also expected to increase at a rate significantly higher than the economy.
noLabel	Women who participated in the study often reported that because of the general machismo subtly encouraged in Latino culture, their male partners would be angry or possibly violent at the woman's suggestion that they use condoms .	A similar phenomenon has been noted in a survey of low-income American black women; the women in this study also reported a fear of violence at the suggestion to their male partners that condoms be used . 
noLabel	As such, the sovereignty of the Cook Islands and Niue is passed on not by the Governor-General or parliament of New Zealand, but through the overreaching Crown itself as a part of the executive, legislative, and judicial operations in all three areas.	Though singular, linking the governments of New Zealand, Niue, and the Cook Islands, the Crown is thus "divided" into three legal jurisdictions. 
noLabel	Apple Inc. CEO, Steve Jobs, has criticized the NEA and other teacher unions for its lack of support for voucher programs, merit pay, and the removal of bad teachers.	On February 17, 2007 at an education reform conference in Texas, Jobs said, "What kind of person could you get to run a small business if you told them that when they came in they couldn’t get rid of people that they thought weren’t any good?” . 
noLabel	Previously influential were the Liberal Party of New York and New York State Right to Life Party, which lost automatic ballot access in 2002.	The Green Party, which had first achieved ballot status in 1998, failed to gain 50,000 votes and also lost its ballot status in 2002, but regained its line when the 2010 election results were certified. 
noLabel	Right-wing nationalism was influenced by Romantic nationalism in which the state derives its political legitimacy as an organic consequence of the unity of those it governs.	This includes, depending on the particular manner of practice, the language, race, culture, religion and customs of the "nation" in its primal sense of those who were "born" within its culture. 
noLabel	In 1917 the administration of Woodrow Wilson decided to rely primarily on conscription, rather than voluntary enlistment, to raise military manpower for World War I.	The Selective Service Act of 1917 was carefully drawn to remedy the defects in the Civil War system and—by allowing exemptions for dependency, essential occupations, and religious scruples—to place each man in his proper niche in a national war effort.
noLabel	Parents are often clueless about signs of steroid use and some parents even encourage it in a misguided attempt to promote their children's careers, doctors said, while many coaches are also uninformed or seem to turn a blind eye.	Four percent of high school seniors said in 2002 that had used steroids, according to a survey by the University of Michigan.
noLabel	The United States, the Puerto Rican government, and the medical community began a program for the mass sterilization of women in Puerto Rico.	By 1965, one-third of the female population had been sterilized and Puerto Rican women continued to use female sterilization as a form of birth control due to a lack of knowledge of the irreversible effects .
noLabel	 For example, Eritrea is forced to spend aid money on foreign goods and services to build a network of railways even though it is cheaper to use local expertise and resources .	US law requires food aid be spent on buying food at home, instead of where the hungry live, and, as a result, half of what is spent is used on transport .
noLabel	Many opposition groups and countries continue to use "Burma" because they do not recognise the legitimacy of the ruling military government or its authority to rename the country .	Various non-Burman ethnic groups choose not to recognise the name because of the association of the term "Myanmar" with the majority ethnic group, the Bamar, rather than with the country . 
noLabel	Jason Alderwick, a maritime analyst at the International Institute for Strategic Studies of London, said that the Israeli raid did not appear to have been conducted lawfully under the convention .	Anthony D'Amato, international law professor at Northwestern University School of Law, argued that the San Remo Manual on International Law Applicable to Armed Conflicts at Sea applies to a situation in which the laws of war between states are in force.
noLabel	In terms of economic efficiency, aid funding would be best allocated towards countries whose marginal productivities per dollar were highest, and away from those countries who had low to negative marginal productivities.	The conclusion was that while an estimated 10 million people are lifted from poverty with current aid policies, that number could be increased to 19 million with efficient aid allocation .
noLabel	After the fall of Ava, one resistance group, Alaungpaya's Konbaung Dynasty defeated Restored Hanthawaddy, and by 1759, had reunited all of Burma (and Manipur), and driven out the French and the British who had provided arms to Hanthawaddy.	By 1770, Alaungpaya's heirs had subdued much of Laos (1765), defeated Siam (1767), and defeated four invasions by China (1765–1769) .
noLabel	Hamas leaders have also promoted Holocaust denial; Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi held that the Holocaust never occurred, that Zionists were behind the action of Nazis, and that Zionists funded Nazism .	A press release by Hamas in April 2000 decried "the so-called Holocaust, which is an alleged and invented story with no basis.
noLabel	During the 5th Summit of the Americas in April 2009, the leaders of several Caribbean nations stated to a group of U.S. congressmen that they have a desire to join the Mérida Initiative, as a crackdown in Mexico could push drug traffickers' operations into their island nations .	This directly led to the formation of the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI) as a complement of the Mérida Initiative .
noLabel	For instance, the majority criterion (MC) is weaker than the multiple majority criterion (MMC), because it requires that a single candidate, rather than a group of any size, should win.	That is, any system which passes the MMC also passes the MC, but not vice versa; while any required winner under the MC must win under the MMC, but not vice versa.
noLabel	While the United States Constitution's First Amendment identifies the rights to assemble and to petition the government, the text of the First Amendment does not make specific mention of a right to association.	Nevertheless, the United States Supreme Court held in NAACP v. Alabama that the freedom of association is an essential part of the Freedom of Speech because, in many cases, people can engage in effective speech only when they join with others.
noLabel	A central issue in the debate over the continued US military presence is the concentration of troops on the small Japanese prefecture of Okinawa.	US military bases cover about one-fifth of Okinawa that serve around 75 percent of the US Forces in Japan (Packard, 2010)(Sumida, 2009), and although this has left many Okinawans feeling that while the security agreement may be beneficial to the United States and Japan as a whole, it is burdensome on the residents of the small subtropical island. 
noLabel	Beyond the value biodiversity has in regulating and stabilizing ecosystem processes, there are direct economic consequences of losing diversity in certain ecosystems and in the world as a whole.	Losing species means losing potential foods, medicines, industrial products, and tourism, all of which have a direct economic effect on peoples lives .
noLabel	The Friedmans worked on this project for the next three years, and during 1980, the ten-part series, titled Free to Choose, was broadcast by the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS).	The companion book to the series (co-authored by Milton and his wife, Rose Friedman), also titled Free To Choose, was the bestselling nonfiction book of 1980 and has since been translated into 14 foreign languages. 
noLabel	The predominant and lingering issue concerning Canadian national unity has been the ongoing conflict between the French-speaking majority in Quebec and the English-speaking majority in the rest of Canada.	Quebec's continued demands for recognition of its "distinct society" through special political status has led to attempts for constitutional reform, most notably with the failed attempts to amend the constitution through the Meech Lake Accord and the Charlottetown Accord (the latter of which was rejected through a national referendum). 
noLabel	Other researchers such as Anand and Fisk have challenged the idea that pain cannot be felt before 26 weeks, positing instead that pain can be felt at around 20 weeks .	Anand's suggestion is disputed in a March 2010 report on  published by a working party of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, citing a lack of evidence or rationale.
noLabel	Trade unions have sometimes been seen as successors to the guilds of medieval Europe, though the relationship between the two is disputed .	Medieval guilds existed to protect and enhance their members' livelihoods through controlling the instructional capital of artisanship and the progression of members from apprentice to craftsman, journeyman, and eventually to master and grandmaster of their craft.
noLabel	In MacCormick v. Lord Advocate, the Scottish Court of Session ruled against the plaintiffs, finding that the Queen's title was a matter of her own choice and prerogative.	The Home Secretary told the House of Commons that monarchs since the Acts of Union had consistently used the higher of the English and Scottish ordinals, which in the applicable four cases has been the English ordinal .
noLabel	While the delegates vote for new representatives every four years, they also lay down the goals and policies for the union.	The most recent representatives for the organisation along with 45 vice presidents are President John J. Sweeny, Secretary-treasurer Richard Trumka, and executive vice president Arlene Holt Baker . 
noLabel	Law professor and blogger Ann Althouse rejected the Everybody Draw Mohammed Day idea because "depictions of Muhammad offend millions of Muslims who are no part of the violent threats.	" James Taranto, writing in the "Best of the Web Today" column at The Wall Street Journal, also objected to the idea, not only because depicting Mohammed "is inconsiderate of the sensibilities of others", but also because "it defines those others—Muslims—as being outside of our culture, unworthy of the courtesy we readily accord to insiders.
noLabel	An uproar resulted when Serge Thion used one of Chomsky's essays without explicit permission as a foreword to a book of Holocaust denial essays (see Faurisson affair).	These laws have also been criticized on the grounds that education is more effective than legislation at combating Holocaust denial and that the laws will make martyrs out of those imprisoned for their violation .
noLabel	First, the average Chinese household expends fewer resources, both in terms of time and money, on children, which gives many Chinese more money with which to invest.	Second, since young Chinese can no longer rely on children to care for them in their old age, there is an impetus to save money for the future .
noLabel	The Second Amendment to the United States Constitution states "A well-regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.	" Disagreement about the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution is a touchstone of modern political debate about guns in America. 
noLabel	Theodicean atheists believe that the world as they experience it cannot be reconciled with the qualities commonly ascribed to God and gods by theologians.	They argue that an omniscient, omnipotent, and omnibenevolent God is not compatible with a world where there is evil and suffering, and where divine love is hidden from many people .
noLabel	The suggestion was brought to widespread attention by a 1999 academic paper, The Impact of Legalized Abortion on Crime, authored by the economists Steven D. Levitt and John Donohue.	They attributed the drop in crime to a reduction in individuals said to have a higher statistical probability of committing crimes: unwanted children, especially those born to mothers who are African American, impoverished, adolescent, uneducated, and single.
noLabel	This energy compresses the fusion fuel and sparkplug; the compressed sparkplug becomes critical and undergoes a fission chain reaction, further heating the compressed fusion fuel to a high enough temperature to induce fusion, and also supplying neutrons that react with lithium to create tritium for fusion.	Generally, increasing the kinetic energy of gas molecules contained in a limited volume will increase both temperature and pressure (see gas laws). 
noLabel	One common example is that of serving suggestion pictures on food product boxes, which show additional ingredients beyond those included in the package.	Although the "serving suggestion" disclaimer is a legal requirement of an illustration which includes items not included in the purchase, if a customer fails to notice or understand this caption, they may incorrectly assume that all depicted items are included. 
noLabel	In March 2012, about 2,000 people staged an anti-nuclear protest in Taiwan's capital following the massive earthquake and tsunami that hit Japan one year ago.	The protesters rallied in Taipei to renew calls for a nuclear-free island by taking lessons from Japan's disaster on March 11, 2011.
noLabel	Although Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes joined the Court majority in upholding Schenck's conviction in 1919, he also introduced the theory that punishment in such cases is limited to political expression that constitutes a "clear and present danger" to the government action at issue.	Holmes' opinion is also the origin of the notion that speech equivalent to "Shouting fire in a crowded theater" is not protected by the First Amendment. 
noLabel	In Street v. New York, 394 U.S. 576 (1969), the United States Supreme Court held that a New York state law making it a crime "publicly [to] mutilate, deface, defile, or defy, trample upon, or cast contempt upon either by words or act [any flag of the United States]" was, in part, unconstitutional because it prohibited speech against the flag.	The Court left for a later day the question of whether it is constitutional or unconstitutional to prohibit, without reference to the utterance of words, the burning of the flag (see Texas v. Johnson and United States v. Eichman).
noLabel	In the U.S., 431 schools in fifty districts (0.35% of all districts and 2.2% of all high schools nationwide) have established school-based condom availability programs.	These programs involve condom distribution, condom-use education and information, peer support, sex and STDs education within the curriculum, and involvement of parents, staff, partnerships, and health care providers.
noLabel	Stuart Hall points out that because some of the media produce material which often is good, impartial and serious, they are accorded a high degree of respect and authority.	However, in practice the ethics of the press and television are closely related to that of the hegemonic establishment, providing vital support to the existing order.
noLabel	It is estimated that 40% of the Greek population of Cyprus, as well as over half of the Turkish Cypriot population, were displaced during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974.	The figures for internally displaced Cypriots varies, the United Peacekeeping force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) estimates 165,000 Greek Cypriots and 45,000 Turkish Cypriots.
noLabel	In July 2006, a ranking member of Fatah's al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades in the West Bank said his group had the ability to produce rockets in the northern West Bank and that major Israeli cities as well as Ben Gurion International Airport would eventually become Palestinian rocket targets.	"Every day our rockets in Gaza become more accurate and do more killing and this is exactly what will happen in the West Bank", he said . 
noLabel	When Republicans retook control of Congress for the 104th session, the Flag Desecration Amendment was first proposed, which would grant the federal government the authority to proscribe flag burning.	A resolution for this Amendment passed the House in every session from the 104th until the 109th Congress, but never got past the Senate (in the most recent vote, passage in the Senate failed by one vote), and has not been considered since the 109th Congress.
noLabel	Secretary of State Pelletier and the Chairman of the Canadian Radio-Television Commission (CRTC) discussed ways of achieving restraint regulations but concluded it would lead to accusations of censorship .	The War Measures Act was invoked and CBC news reports in Ottawa received instructions that they were to broadcast only stories that were attributed to an identifiable source, retrain comments from the opposition parties, and to not allow their names to be identified with political statements.
noLabel	" The Israeli government's press office later apologized for circulating a link to the video that mocked activists on board, and clarified that it does not represent Israel's official stance .	The creation of the film was initiated by Caroline Glick, the deputy managing director and columnist for the Jerusalem Post .
noLabel	Historical examples of elective monarchy include the Holy Roman Emperors (chosen by prince-electors but often coming from the same dynasty) and the free election of kings of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.	Modern examples include the Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia and the pope of the Roman Catholic Church, who serves as Sovereign of the Vatican City State and is elected to a life term by the College of Cardinals. 
noLabel	The Marlboro colours disappeared after the 2009 season, when Verizon replaced Marlboro as the primary sponsor for the #12 car, and the Verizon livery was attached to the #3 and #6 cars.	For 2011, the #3 and #6 cars will likely switch to a yellow and red Shell livery to reflect the Anglo-Dutch oil giant's sponsorship of the Penske organisation.
noLabel	In fact, judge Julian Mack, who helped create the juvenile court system in the United States, said that juvenile justice was based on the belief that young people do not always make good decisions because they are not mature, but this means that they can be reformed more easily than adults .	However, the relationship between psychological maturity and age is a difficult one, and there has been much debate over methods of determining maturity, especially regarding social issues such as religion, politics, human stem-cell research, genetic engineering and abortion .
noLabel	On September 6, 2007, Israel bombed an officially unidentified site in Syria which it later asserted was a nuclear reactor under construction (see Operation Orchard) .	The alleged reactor was not asserted to be operational and it was not asserted that nuclear material had been introduced into it .
noLabel	Conversely, the Governors of Montana and Wyoming are restricted to two terms, limited to serving 8 out of any 16 years.	Finally, the governors of the following states and territory are absolutely limited (for life) to two terms: Arkansas, California, Delaware, Michigan, Mississippi, Missouri, Nevada, and the Northern Mariana Islands . 
noLabel	Holder said: [The DoJ] will not hesitate to take appropriately aggressive action against any jurisdiction that attempts to hinder access to the franchise.	He's suing the state under section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which bans voting discrimination on the basis of color.
noLabel	The formal meaning of “diversity,” “cultural equity,” “gorgeous mosaic” and so on is a society in which many different cultures will live together in perfect equality and peace (i.e., a society that has never existed and never will exist); the real meaning of these slogans is that the power of the existing mainstream society to determine its own destiny shall be drastically reduced while the power of other groups, formerly marginal or external to that society, will be increased.	In other words the U.S. must, in the name of diversity, abandon its particularity while the very groups making that demand shall hold on to theirs . 
noLabel	Some players, team trainers and executives said they found it interesting that no such discussion was taking place about the lack of testing for amphetamines, which they said players routinely used to make themselves more alert.	People might think there is a steroid problem in baseball, but it's nowhere near the other problem; the other, it's a rampant problem, said Tony Gwynn, the former San Diego Padres outfielder who estimated that 50 percent of position players regularly use amphetamines, commonly called greenies.
noLabel	With respect to governmental information, any government may distinguish which materials are public or protected from disclosure to the public based on classification of information as sensitive, classified or secret and being otherwise protected from disclosure due to relevance of the information to protecting the national interest.	Many governments are also subject to sunshine laws or freedom of information legislation that are used to define the ambit of national interest. 
noLabel	A 2002 analysis of satellite imagery suggested that the rate of deforestation in the humid tropics (approximately 5.8 million hectares per year) was roughly 23% lower than the most commonly quoted rates .	Conversely, a newer analysis of satellite images reveals that deforestation of the Amazon rainforest is twice as fast as scientists previously estimated . 
noLabel	In his Critique of Pure Reason, German philosopher Immanuel Kant that there is not good argument for God's existence that arises from pure reason alone.	In his Critique of Practical Reason, he went on to argue that despite the failure of these arguments, rationality requires that the existence of God is presupposed, owing to practical reason .
noLabel	As of 1998, among the 152 most populous countries, 54 either banned abortion entirely or permitted it only to save the life of the pregnant woman .	In addition, another 44 of the 152 most populous countries generally banned late-term abortions after a particular gestational age: 12 weeks (Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Georgia, Greece, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Rep., Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Mongolia, Norway, Russian Federation, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Ukraine, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Yugoslavia), 13 weeks (Italy), 14 weeks (Austria, Belgium, Cambodia, Germany, Hungary, and Romania), 18 weeks (Sweden), viability (Netherlands and to some extent the United States), and 24 weeks (Singapore and Britain)
noLabel	When compared to the number of charter schools across the nation, which is around 3,000, North Carolina does indeed seem to be but a small part of the charter school system, especially when compared to the top three states in regard to the number of charter schools, Arizona, California, and Michigan.	And while the number of charter schools in North Carolina is growing, it has yet to produce a cyber charter school, despite a handful of applications for this cutting edge educational system, which in theory better prepares a student for work in newer technical world.
noLabel	As the two "BCS Busters" would be matched up against each other and would thereby be denied the opportunity to face a top team from one of the six BCS conferences, instead providing a rematch of a non-BCS bowl from the previous year (see above), the BCS came off looking " at best, a cowardly cartel" .	Placing two teams from non-AQ conferences in the same bowl also contradicted the previous assertion that non-AQ schools are less likely to receive at-large bids because the bowls prefer the superior drawing power of the big schools and their highly mobile fanbases—hence undefeated Boise State's omission from the BCS the previous year in favor of two-loss Ohio State.
noLabel	The ID had granted her access to the governor's office for decades, but now, she was told, it wasn't good enough to get her into the voting booth.	She and her family are considering a lawsuit, an unfortunate turn of events for a woman who is older than the right of women to vote in this country.It is not just the elderly being given the disenfranchisement runaround.
noLabel	Everson used the metaphor of a wall of separation between church and state, derived from the correspondence of President Thomas Jefferson.	It had been long established in the decisions of the Supreme Court, beginning with Reynolds v. United States from 1879, when the Court reviewed the history of the early Republic in deciding the extent of the liberties of Mormons.
noLabel	The first known example of an opinion poll was a local straw poll conducted by The Harrisburg Pennsylvanian in 1824, showing Andrew Jackson leading John Quincy Adams by 335 votes to 169 in the contest for the United States Presidency.	Since Jackson won the popular vote in the full election, such straw votes gradually became more popular, but they remained local, usually city-wide phenomena.
noLabel	With the modernization of cigarette consumption compounded with the increased life expectancies during the 1920s, adverse health effects began to become more noticeable.	In 1929, Fritz Lickint of Dresden, Germany, published a formal statistical evidence of a lung cancer–tobacco link; which subsequently led the strong anti-smoking movement of Nazi Germany.
noLabel	Official efforts by the U.S. government to limit access to, conversation about, and general spread of the cables leaked by WikiLeaks were revealed by leading media organizations.	A 4 December 2010 article by MSNBC, reported that the Obama administration has warned federal government employees and students in educational institutions studying towards careers in public service that they must refrain from downloading or linking to any WikiLeaks documents.
noLabel	In California, under Proposition 14, a measure that easily passed, traditional party primaries will be replaced in 2011 with wide-open elections.	Proposition 14, known as the open primary measure, will give every voter the same ballot in primary elections for most state and federal races, except the presidential contest .
noLabel	Police corruption is a specific form of police misconduct designed to obtain financial benefits, other personal gain, and/or career advancement for a police officer or officers in exchange for not pursuing, or selectively pursuing, an investigation or arrest.	One common form of police corruption is soliciting and/or accepting bribes in exchange for not reporting organized drug or prostitution rings or other illegal activities.
noLabel	In contrast to the figures discussed in this section thus far, David Hume lived a relatively quiet life that had settled down to a relatively stable social and political structure.	He lived the life of a solitary writer until 1763 when, at 52 years of age, he went off to Paris to work at the British embassy. 
noLabel	Political arguments of gun politics in the United States, debate about the right to bear arms, centers on the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution and how it should be interpreted.	Other factors include the correlation between gun ownership to crime and murder rates, ethical considerations, the balance between an individual's right of self-defense, national security, and citizens' interest in maintaining public safety.
noLabel	Public outcry over perceived immorality in Hollywood and the movies, as well as the growing number of city and state censorship boards, led the movie studios to fear that federal regulations were not far off; so they created, in 1922, the Motion Pictures Producers and Distributors Association (which became the Motion Picture Association of America in 1945), an industry trade and lobby organization.	The association was headed by Will H. Hays, a well-connected Republican lawyer who had previously been United States Postmaster General; and he derailed attempts to institute federal censorship over the movies. 
noLabel	The term lobbying in everyday parlance can describe a wide variety of actions, and in its general sense, suggests advocacy, advertising, or promoting a cause.	In this sense, anybody who tries to influence any political position can be thought of as "lobbying", and sometimes the term is used in this loose sense.
noLabel	The British regulated online gambling sector was worth a 12% market share of the British regulated gambling industry within the same time period.	Most British consumer online gambling activity is on overseas regulated websites, and estimates place the UK consumer market for online gambling at £1.9 billion for 2010.
noLabel	Tropical rainforests have been called the "jewels of the Earth" and the "world's largest pharmacy", because over one quarter of natural medicines have been discovered there .	Rainforests are also responsible for 28% of the world's oxygen turnover, sometimes misnamed oxygen production, processing it through photosynthesis from carbon dioxide and consuming it through respiration. 
noLabel	A 2009 survey by Gallup found roughly 700 million adults would like to migrate to another country permanently if they had the chance .	Nearly one-quarter (24%) of these respondents, which translates to more than 165 million adults worldwide, named the United States as their desired future residence, while an additional 6.5% of respondents, representing an estimated 45 million, chose Canada.
noLabel	The BCS National Championship Game, or BCS National Championship, is the final bowl game of the annual Bowl Championship Series (BCS) and is intended by the organizers of the BCS to determine the U.S. national champion of the NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly known as NCAA Division I-A).	The participants are the two highest-ranked teams in the BCS standings at the end of the regular college football season, currently determined by averaging the results of the final weekly USA Today Coaches' Poll, Harris Interactive Poll of media, former players and coaches, and the average of six participating computer rankings. 
noLabel	Inequalities in health care may also reflect a systemic bias in the way medical procedures and treatments are prescribed for different ethnic groups.	Raj Bhopal writes that the history of racism in science and medicine shows that people and institutions behave according to the ethos of their times and warns of dangers to avoid in the future .
noLabel	Japan has the highest rate of condom usage in the world: in that country, condoms account for almost 80% of contraceptive use by married women.	On average, in developed countries, condoms are the most popular method of birth control: 28% of married contraceptive users rely on condoms.
noLabel	Italy, along with the eastern European monarchies of Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania joined with Germany in World War II against the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Western allies and the Soviet Union.	As the Axis powers came to a defeat in the war, communist partisans in occupied Yugoslavia and occupied Albania seized power and ended the monarchies.
noLabel	[..] According to the Washington Post, universities and casinos have received these letters and been forced to comply with the demands to turn over private student and customer information.	Anyone who receives an NSL is gagged - forever - from telling anyone that the FBI demanded records, even if their identity has already been made public. 
noLabel	By 1991 more than 6,000 women were in the SDF, about 80% of service areas, except those requiring direct exposure to combat, were open to them.	The National Defense Medical College graduated its first class with women in March 1991, and the National Defense Academy began admitting women in FY 1992. 
noLabel	Considered by some as a curiosity in the mid-1970s, the computer and video game industries have grown from focused markets to mainstream.	They took in about US$9.5 billion in the US in 2007, 11.7 billion in 2008, and 25.1 billion in 2010 (ESA annual report). 
noLabel	Some of the largest well-known FOSS projects are either legacy code (e.g., FreeBSD or Apache) developed a long time ago independently of the free software movement, or by companies like Netscape (which open-sourced its code with the hope that they can compete better), or by companies like MySQL which use FOSS to lure customers for its more expensive licensed product.	However, it is notable that most of these projects have seen major or even complete rewrites (in the case of the Mozilla and Apache 2 code, for example) and do not contain much of the original code. 
noLabel	Benedict XVI distinguishes “poverty chosen” (the poverty of spirit proposed by Jesus), and “poverty to be fought” (unjust and imposed poverty).	He considers that the moderation implied in the former favors solidarity, and is a necessary condition so as to fight effectively to eradicate the abuse of the latter .
noLabel	His exposure, the first time a formal connection had been made between drugs and Simpson's death, set off a wave of similar reporting in Britain and elsewhere.	The following month, Manning went further, in a piece headed "Evidence in the case of Simpson who crossed the frontier of endurance without being able to know he had 'had enough'": . 
noLabel	In more recent years, some within the RPG community have criticized action JRPGs as not being "true" RPGs for different reasons: heavy usage of scripted cut scenes and dialogue, and a frequent lack of branching outcomes .	[Turner] Japanese RPGs are also sometimes criticized for having relatively simple battle systems in which players are able to win by repetitively mashing buttons,[Turner] though it has been pointed out that Japanese RPG combat systems such as in Final Fantasy X and Xenosaga have become increasingly complex over the years, with more of an emphasis on strategy and timing, and with each new game often introducing their own rules and systems .
noLabel	They called on the law to act, enabling them to shelter under its wing and feel secure from interminable court actions and claims.	They let the show carry on while the law acted light-heartedly, without vigour and purpose - and its deterrent had no effect .
noLabel	The relationship between race and crime has been an area of study for criminologists since the emergence of anthropological criminology in the late 19th century .	Cesare Lombroso, founder of the Italian school of criminology, argued that criminal behavior was the product of biological factors, including race.
noLabel	In 2004 and 2005, Arturo Beltrán Leyva led powerful groups of assassins to fight for trade routes in northeastern Mexico for the Sinaloa Cartel.	Through the use of corruption or intimidation, the Beltrán Leyva Cartel was able to infiltrate Mexico's political, judicial and police institutions to feed classified information about anti-drug operations, and even infiltrated the Interpol office in Mexico . 
noLabel	Following the 2011 general election, the National Party in return for confidence and supply announced it would pick up an ACT Party a policy of setting up charter schools in southern Auckland and eastern Christchurch within three years.	This followed the appointment of Lesley Longstone, who has experience in England with charter schools, as the new Secretary of Education.
noLabel	This theory focuses on recurrent supply shocks that suddenly reduce aggregate demand for goods and services and thus reduce demand for workers.	Keynesian models recommend government interventions designed to increase demand for workers; these can include financial stimuli, publicly funded job creation, and expansionist monetary policies.
noLabel	Imperial daughters and granddaughters, however, usually ascended the throne as a sort of a "stop gap" measure—if a suitable male was not available or some imperial branches were in rivalry so that a compromise was needed.	Over half of Japanese empresses and many emperors abdicated once a suitable male descendant was considered to be old enough to rule (just past toddlerhood, in some cases).
noLabel	Other writers apply similar criteria, concluding that the embryo lacks a right to life because it lacks self-consciousness, or rationality and self-consciousness, or 'certain higher psychological capacities' including 'autonomy' .	These writers disagree on precisely which features confer a right to life, but agree those features must be certain developed psychological features which the embryo lacks. 
noLabel	The rhetorical discourse used in open source movements is now being broadened to include a larger group of non-expert users as well as advocacy organizations.	Several organized groups such as the Creative Commons and global development agencies have also adopted the open source concepts according to their own aims and for their own purposes . 
noLabel	In 2006, Reporters without Borders (Reporters sans frontières, RSF), a Paris-based international non-governmental organization that advocates freedom of the press, started publishing a list of "Enemies of the Internet" .	The organization classifies a country as an enemy of the internet because "all of these countries mark themselves out not just for their capacity to censor news and information online but also for their almost systematic repression of Internet users.
noLabel	" These stories depict children hanging themselves after being denied sweets, and cases of matricide in retribution for a scolding or late dinner .	The discussion of Little Emperors has saturated public discussion concerning the generation of the one-child policy within Chinese and international media. 
noLabel	In order for such a program to succeed, a sufficient number of individuals would have to be cloned, from the DNA of different individuals (in the case of sexually reproducing organisms) to create a viable population.	Though bioethical and philosophical objections have been raised, the cloning of extinct creatures seems a viable outcome of the continuing advancements in our science and technology . 
noLabel	The DAC’s , GENDERNET, produces practical tools to help integrate gender equality and women’s empowerment into all aspects of development co-operation.	It is currently focusing on the implementation of the Paris Declaration, designing a set of guiding principles to show how women’s empowerment can be clearly integrated into aid effectiveness efforts to increase their impact. 
noLabel	Prior to the arrival of European-Americans, roughly half of the land area of the present-day United States was forest—about 4000000km2 in 1600.	For the next 300 years land was cleared, mostly for agriculture, at a rate that matched the rate of population growth.
noLabel	Family planning proponent Stephen D. Mumford has argued that the primary motivation behind the Church's continued opposition to contraceptive use is the Church's fear of losing papal authority if the pope were to contradict the dogma of papal infallibility .	Mumford gives as an example the citation made by August Bernhard Hasler of a comment by Pope John Paul II prior to his papacy: . 
noLabel	Lynch also stated that "We [the HRCs] have a responsibility to lead the debate on how we can keep our policy up to date to effectively regulate hate on the Internet."	The Post also criticized Lynch for this statement, arguing that "Her interest appears to be not whether to regulate speech, but merely how to do it "effectively."
noLabel	In 1543, the Faculty of Theology issued its first Index of prohibited books, all religious, preceding by 16 years the Vatican's issuance of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum in 1559 .	The Edict of Châteaubriant issued on June 27, 1551, prohibited possessing any books listed on the University's Index; translating the Bible or works of the Church Fathers; importing books from Geneva and other places not under the Church's control; or printing or selling of any religious books written in the last 40 years . 
noLabel	The most extreme criticisms of states and governments are made by anarchists, who believe that all states and governments are undesirable and/or unnecessary.	Some socialist anarchists believe that while social welfare gives a certain level of independency from the market and individual capitalists, it creates dependence to the state, which is the institution that, according to this view, supports and protects capitalism in the first place.
noLabel	Violence or the threat of violence: In its simplest form, voters from a particular demographic or known to support a particular party or candidate are directly threatened by supporters of another party or candidate or by those hired by them.	In other cases, supporters of a particular party make it known that if a particular village or neighbourhood is found to have voted the 'wrong' way, reprisals will be made against that community.
noLabel	Goldstone dismissed accusations of anti-Israel bias in his report as "ridiculous" and invited "fair minded people" to read the report and "at the end of it, point out where it failed to be objective or even-handed" .	Speaking in the UNHRC, Goldstone rejected what he called a "barrage of criticism" about his findings and said the answers to such criticism are in the findings of the report .
noLabel	The Labour and Liberal Democrat groups on Sheffield City Council have both expressed opposition to the idea of an elected mayor, whilst the regional director of the Confederation of British Industry, Andrew Palmer, has also expressed doubt over the plan .	The former Labour MP Joe Ashton, who was born in Sheffield, and other local businessmen, however, have declared their support for an elected mayor of Sheffield .
noLabel	Allowing taxpayers to choose which government organizations received their taxes would enable them to boycott any government organizations that they deemed to be unethical.	For example, pacifists would be able to boycott the military, anarcho-capitalists would be able to boycott the IRS, Catholics would be able to boycott public healthcare, etc.
noLabel	Non-governmental organizations such as WWF have been highly active in the region and WWF Brazil has formed an alliance with some eight other Brazilian NGO'S which aim to completely halt deforestation in the Amazon by 2015.	Working with groups such as Greenpeace, and The Nature Conservancy, the proposal, known as the "Agreement on Acknowledging the Value of the Forest and Ending Amazon Deforestation," aims at combining strong public policies with market strategies to achieve annual deforestation reduction targets .
noLabel	It has been reported that more than 500 Romanian manufactured AK-47s (WASR-10) smuggled to Mexico were legally imported into the United States from Europe by Century Arms International despite a U.S. ban on the importation of certain configurations of semi-automatic assault rifles .	Other types of AK-47s were also recovered in 2009; for example, according to the Violence Policy Center, Mexico seized 281 Chinese Norinco AK-47s from January 1 to June 30, 2009, however, it should be noted that Chinese guns have not been imported into the United States since May 1994 .
noLabel	Instruction in the US educational system, as well as in most other countries, tends to be geared towards those students who come from more advantaged backgrounds.	As a result, these children are at a higher risk than other children for retention in their grade, special placements during the school's hours and even not completing their high school education .
noLabel	Robert Greenwald, a director of Uncovered: The Whole Truth About the Iraq War documentary was refused the right to use a clip of a George W. Bush interview from NBC's Meet the Press.	Although the fair use provisions of statute and common law may apply in such cases, the risks of loss in court should there be a lawsuit and pressure from insurance companies, who regard use of almost anything (e.g., three words forming the opening of a song,) without permission as too risky, usually precludes use of materials without explicit permission, and so without a license fee. 
noLabel	People with early seizures, those occurring within a week of injury, have an increased risk of post-traumatic epilepsy (recurrent seizures occurring more than a week after the initial trauma) .	Generally, medical professionals use anticonvulsant medications to treat seizures in TBI patients within the first week of injury only and after that only if the seizures persist. 
noLabel	According to the Weimar Republic 1928 Law on Firearms & Ammunition, firearms acquisition or carrying permits were “only to be granted to persons of undoubted reliability, and—in the case of a firearms carry permit—only if a demonstration of need is set forth.” The Nazis replaced this law with the Weapons Law of March 18, 1938, which was very similar in structure and wording, but relaxed gun control requirements for the general population.	This relaxation included the exemption from regulation of all weapons and ammunition except handguns, the extension of the range of persons exempt from the permit requirement, and the lowering of the age for acquisition of firearms from 20 to 18.
noLabel	The role of women in the family and the workplace has been an issue of great change and even greater implication throughout recent history.	Changing social constructions of gender roles and family roles has led to a debate over the role of women in the home and the value or lack thereof placed upon it[1].
noLabel	Considered as the founder of criminal anthropology, he suggested that physiological traits such as the measurements of one's cheek bones or hairline, or a cleft palate, considered to be throwbacks to Neanderthal man, were indicative of "atavistic" criminal tendencies.	This approach, influenced by the earlier theory of phrenology and by Charles Darwin and his theory of evolution, has been superseded.
noLabel	The movie system, at one time outside the direct influence of the broader marketing system, is now fully integrated into it through the strategies of licensing, tie-ins and product placements.	The prime function of many Hollywood films today is to aid in the selling of the immense collection of commodities .
noLabel	Chief Justice William Rehnquist, writing for the majority, stated that "The incidental advancement of a religious mission, or the perceived endorsement of a religious message, is reasonably attributable to the individual aid recipients not the government, whose role ends with the disbursement of benefits."	The Supreme Court ruled that the Ohio program did not violate the Establishment Clause, because it passed a five part test developed by the Court in this case, titled the Private Choice Test. 
noLabel	Critics have said that the term “open source” fosters an ambiguity of a different kind such that it confuses the mere availability of the source with the freedom to use, modify, and redistribute it.	Developers have used the alternative terms Free/open source Software (FOSS), or Free/Libre/open source Software (FLOSS), consequently, to describe open source software which is also free software. 
noLabel	International criticism of Israeli government policies is usually expressed within the discipline of international law and various obligations, real or perceived, that Israel is accused of not complying or fulfilling as a member of United Nations and other international organisations.	Criticism of contemporary policies usually relates to issues in the Palestinian territories such as Israeli settlements, human rights of Palestinian Arabs, the conduct of Israeli Defense Forces during conflicts and accusations of economic strangulation of Palestinian territories.
noLabel	The required shielding can be accomplished with 10 times the amount of any quantity of material capable of cutting gamma ray effects in half.	Shields that reduce gamma ray intensity by 50% (1/2) include 1&nbsp;cm (0.4&nbsp;inch) of lead, 6&nbsp;cm (2.4&nbsp;inches) of concrete, 9&nbsp;cm (3.6&nbsp;inches) of packed dirt or 150&nbsp;m (500&nbsp;ft) of air.
noLabel	A. Koldobsky) state that the program has already paid for itself and saved the USSR billions of rubles and can save even more if it would continue.	They also allege that the PNE is the only feasible way to put out large fountains and fires on natural gas deposits, and it is the safest and most economically viable way to destroy chemical weapons. 
noLabel	According to the Japanese Association for Refugees, the number of refugees who applied to live in Japan has rapidly increased since 2006, and there were more than a thousand applications in 2008 .	Japan's refugee policy has been criticized both domestically and internationally because the number of refugees accepted into Japan is small compared to countries such as Canada and France.
noLabel	Concerned that revenue from a new Wasilla sales tax would not be spent wisely, Palin ran for mayor of Wasilla in 1996, defeating incumbent mayor John Stein 651 to 440 votes .	Her biographer described her campaign as targeting wasteful spending and high taxes; her opponent, Stein, said that Palin introduced abortion, gun rights, and term limits as campaign issues .
noLabel	The crusade against dope by sport's governing bodies is expensive, ineffective, futile and a denial of the reality of contemporary sport.	It is time sport liberalised its policies: it should drop the banned substances list and allow athletes to make informed and intelligent choices as to whether or not they wish to take performance-enhancing substances.
noLabel	The lack of analysis is made stranger by the many previous words of caution that had been offered concerning the possibility of a unified agency.	The Home Affairs Committee in 2001, while being broadly supportive of the idea took note of the then Home Secretary’s warnings regarding a separate Border Agency which stood separately alongside the existing agencies: . 
noLabel	Across the country, state legislatures and governors are pushing laws that seek to restrict access to the voting booth, laws that will disproportionately harm people of color, low-income people, and young and elderly voters.	The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund have just released a comprehensive report on the crisis, "Defending Democracy: Confronting Modern Barriers to Voting Rights in America."
noLabel	On February 17, 2006 former U.S. Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld , that "in this war, some of the most critical battles may not be fought in the mountains of Afghanistan or the streets of Iraq, but in the newsrooms in places like New York and London and Cairo and elsewhere.	[..] While the enemy is increasingly skillful at manipulating the media and using the tools of communications to their advantage, it should be noted that we have an advantage as well, and that is, quite simply, that the truth is on our side, and ultimately, in my view, truth wins out.
noLabel	 Presently, Prime Minister John Key has said he is "not convinced [a republic] will be a big issue in the short term," but does believe that a republic is "inevitable.	" There are two special-interest groups representing both sides of the debate in New Zealand, and argue the issue in the media from time to time: the Monarchy New Zealand and the Republican Movement of Aotearoa New Zealand. 
noLabel	Countries in Africa from where 5,000 or more refugees originated as of the end of 2004, arranged in descending order of numbers of refugees are listed below .	The largest number of refugees are from Sudan and have fled either the longstanding and recently concluded Sudanese Civil War or the Darfur conflict and are located mainly in Chad, Uganda, Ethiopia, and Kenya. 
noLabel	The IPC announced that, due to serious difficulties in determining the eligibility of athletes, it was suspending all official sporting activities involving an intellectual disability .	The IPC attempted to develop a revised system for testing for intellectual disabilities but announced on 1 February 2003 that all events involving learning difficulties would be abandoned for the 2004 Summer Paralympics in Athens . 
noLabel	Ethel and Julius Rosenberg – Americans who were involved in coordinating and recruiting an espionage network that included Ethel's brother, David Greenglass.	Julius and Ethel Rosenberg were tried for conspiracy to commit espionage, since the prosecution seemed to feel that there was not enough evidence to convict on espionage.
noLabel	In 2009 Republic made news by reporting Prince Charles's architecture charity to the Charity Commission (the Commission declined to take the matter further) and has previously broken stories about royals using the Freedom of Information Act.	The organisation is regularly called up to comment and provide quotes for the press, national and local radio and national TV programmes. 
noLabel	The brain is surrounded by cerebrospinal fluid, one of the functions of which is to protect it from light trauma, but more severe impacts or the forces associated with rapid acceleration may not be absorbed by this cushion .	Concussion may be caused by impact forces, in which the head strikes or is struck by something, or impulsive forces, in which the head moves without itself being subject to blunt trauma (for example, when the chest hits something and the head snaps forward) . 
noLabel	Article 4 of the Convention condemns propaganda and organizations that attempt to justify discrimination or are based on the idea of racial supremacism .	It obliges parties, "with due regard to the principles embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights", to adopt "immediate and positive measures" to eradicate these forms of incitement and discrimination .
noLabel	God of the gaps is a type of theological perspective in which gaps in scientific knowledge are taken to be evidence or proof of God's existence.	The term was invented by Christian theologians not to discredit theism but rather to discourage reliance on teleological arguments for God's existence .
noLabel	According to a 2007 study published by the Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, "A large proportion of young people believe even an intimate level of sexual contact is abstaining from sex and being a virgin.	" If an adolescent engaged in a particular behavior they were more likely to believe that they still meet the definition of a virgin .
noLabel	As a condition to obtain the legal status of a trade union, employee associations need to prove that their leverage is strong enough to serve as a counterforce in negotiations with employers.	If such an employees association is competing against another union, its leverage may be questioned by unions and then evaluated in a court trial.
noLabel	In January 2012, three hundred anti-nuclear protestors took to the streets of Llangefnia, against plans to build a new nuclear power station at Wylfa in the UK.	The march was organised by a number of organisations, including Pobl Atal Wylfa B, Greenpeace and Cymdeithas yr Iaith, which are supporting farmer Richard Jones who is in dispute with Horizon . 
noLabel	Thus, a key requirement for the analysis is a clear statement of the applicability of the analysis based on justified assumptions.	See a recent review on the subject stating reporting requirements and clearing up misconceptions about inputs : A Review of Solar Photovoltaic Levelized Cost of Electricity, Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 15, pp.4470-4482 (2011) http://www.appropedia.org/Review_of_Solar_Levelized_Cost .
noLabel	Research by the Overseas Development Institute based on in-person interviews with senior politicians and government officials in Ethiopia, Sierra Leone and Zambia suggests that the Accra Agenda for Action (AAA) and Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness's indicators are too narrowly defined and lack depth .	The principles of "predictability" and "transparency" are highlighted as lacking depth and important sub-dimensions not given enough emphasis, for instance on adaptation to local contexts.
noLabel	- The Chilean Ministry of Foreign Relations, on September 25, expressed concern and absolutely rejected any action that would prevent the free exercise of basic human rights and called for the government of Myanmar to avoid the use of violence as well as free political prisoners as a gesture of good will to the international community .	On September 28, the Chilean Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the violence against protesters and called for the international community to make maximum efforts to contribute to the end of the current situation .
noLabel	Socialization - Socialization refers to lifelong learning, through social experience, that contributes to the development of the personality and allows full participation in society .	Sociologists use the term socialization to refer to the lifelong social experience by which people develop their human potential and learn culture .
noLabel	In 2010, the United States led the world in geothermal electricity production with 3,086 MW of installed capacity from 77 power plants; the largest group of geothermal power plants in the world is located at The Geysers, a geothermal field in California .	The Philippines follows the US as the second highest producer of geothermal power in the world, with 1,904 MW of capacity online; geothermal power makes up approximately 18% of the country's electricity generation .
noLabel	The only possible solution to this question is one which envisages the social and economic progress both of individuals and of the whole of human society, and which respects and promotes true human values.	" No one can, without being grossly unfair, make divine Providence responsible for what clearly seems to be the result of misguided governmental policies, of an insufficient sense of social justice, of a selfish accumulation of material goods, and finally of a culpable failure to undertake those initiatives and responsibilities which would raise the standard of living of peoples and their children .
noLabel	With a continuing negativity towards circumcision still present within a minority of modern-day Reform, Judaic scholar Jon Levenson has warned that if they "continue to judge brit milah to be not only medically unnecessary but also brutalizing and mutilating..the abhorrence of it expressed by some early Reform leaders will return with a vengeance", proclaiming that circumcision will be "the latest front in the battle over the Jewish future in America.	" Nevertheless, it has "remained a central rite" in Reform Judaism, and the Union for Reform Judaism has, since 1984, trained and certified over 300 practicing mohels under its "Berit Mila Program" . 
noLabel	New Atheism is the name given to a movement among some early-21st-century atheist writers who have advocated the view that "religion should not simply be tolerated but should be countered, criticized, and exposed by rational argument wherever its influence arises.	" New atheists argue that recent scientific advancements demand a less accommodating attitude toward religion, superstition, and religious fanaticism than had traditionally been extended by many secularists.
noLabel	The legislation that finally emerged was the Aliens Act 1905 which was considered even at the time a flawed and inconsistent piece of legislation.	It was ambivalent in its aims and constructed powers whose ostensible aim was that they should be equally applied but its underlying aim was to control a particular “problem” group.
noLabel	Although Cuban cigars cannot legally be imported into the USA, the advent of the Internet has made it much easier for people in the United States to purchase cigars online from other countries, especially when shipped without bands.	Cuban cigars are openly advertised in some European tourist regions, catering to the American market, even though it is illegal to advertise tobacco in most European regions .
noLabel	The freer the market, the more prices will reflect consumer habits and demands, and the more valuable the information in these prices are to all players in the economy.	Through free competition between vendors for the provision of products and services, prices tend to decrease, and quality tends to increase. 
noLabel	In most cases book burning is intended an act of contempt for the book's contents or author, and the act is intended to draw wider public attention to this opinion.	Examples include the destruction of the Sarajevo National Library, the 2010 Qur'an-burning controversy, and the burning of Beatles records after a remark from John Lennon concerning Jesus Christ.
noLabel	Co-curricular activities have become compulsory at the Secondary level, where all pupils must participate in at least one core CCA, and participation is graded together with other things like Leadership throughout the four years of Secondary education, in a scoring system.	Competitions are organised so that students can have an objective towards to work, and in the case of musical groups, showcase talents .
noLabel	As stated in the Boston College Guide to Passion Plays, "Over the course of time, Christians began to accept.. that the Jewish people as a whole were responsible for killing Jesus.	According to this interpretation, both the Jews present at Jesus’ death and the Jewish people collectively and for all time, have committed the sin of deicide, or God-killing.
noLabel	Furthermore, Huth argues that both supporters and critics of rational deterrence theory agree that an unfavourable assessment of the domestic and international status quo by state leaders can undermine or severely test the success of deterrence.	In a rational choice approach, if the expected utility of not using force is reduced by a declining status quo position, then deterrence failure is more likely, since the alternative option of using force becomes relatively more attractive.
noLabel	He also explained that the relevance of the O'Brien test is limited "in which 'the governmental interest is unrelated to the suppression of free expression'", as the Texas law in question had its interest in preventing any violent reaction that my spring from those witnessing the burning of the flag.	This case helped solidify the condition that any law that inhibits freedom of speech must have an important and compelling interest to do so .
noLabel	Throughout the 19th century, the main line dividing Left and Right in France was between supporters of the Republic and supporters of the Monarchy .	On the right, the Legitimists and Ultra-royalists held counter-revolutionary views, while the Orléanists hoped to create a constitutional monarchy under their preferred branch of the royal family, a brief reality after the 1830 July Revolution. 
noLabel	Their competitors will take advantage of the situation by offering a higher wage to snatch up the best of their labor.	For a businessman who has the profit motive as the prime interest, it is a losing proposition to offer below or above market wages to workers . 
noLabel	The Nansen Office was plagued by problems of financing, an increase in refugee numbers, and a lack of co-operation from some member states, which led to mixed success overall.	However, it managed to lead fourteen nations to ratify the Refugee Convention of 1933, an early, and relatively modest, attempt at a human rights charter, and in general assisted around one million refugees worldwide . 
noLabel	In essence, the Teller–Ulam configuration relies on at least two instances of implosion occurring: first, the conventional (chemical) explosives in the primary would compress the fissile core, resulting in a fission explosion many times more powerful than that which chemical explosives could achieve alone.	Second, the radiation from the fissioning of the primary would be used to compress and ignite the secondary, resulting in a fusion explosion many times more powerful than the fission explosion alone.
noLabel	In "On Liberty" (1859) John Stuart Mill argued that "..there ought to exist the fullest liberty of professing and discussing, as a matter of ethical conviction, any doctrine, however immoral it may be considered.	" Mill argues that the fullest liberty of expression is required to push arguments to their logical limits, rather than the limits of social embarrassment.
noLabel	Free Speech is not For Sale, a joint campaign report by Index on Censorship and English PEN highlighted the problem of so-called libel tourism and the English law of defamation’s chilling effect on free speech.	After much debate surrounding the report’s ten key recommendations, the UK Justice Secretary Jack Straw pledged to make English defamation laws fairer . 
noLabel	The Swedish national football team has seen some success at the World Cup in the past, finishing second when they hosted the tournament in 1958, and third twice, in 1950 and 1994.	Athletics has enjoyed a surge in popularity due to several successful athletes in recent years, such as Carolina Klüft and Stefan Holm. 
noLabel	Although the United States has higher income inequality than many European countries, its welfare programs do not engage in as much income redistribution.	In 1998, the United States government's expenditures on subsidies and transfers constituted 11 percent of its GDP, whereas the average government expenditures on subsidies and transfers constituted 19% GDP in countries in the European Union(Alesina, Glaeser, Sacerdote (2000)).
noLabel	Many versions of Doom (and its sequels) include secret levels which are accessed by the player discovering alternate exits, often hidden behind secret doors or in areas which are difficult to reach.	In some versions of Doom II, both of these secret levels incorporate level design and characters from Dooms precursor, Wolfenstein 3D, which was also developed by id. 
noLabel	Native Americans make up about 2% of Canada's population, but account for 18% of the federal prison population as of 2000 .	According to the Australian government's June 2006 publication of prison statistics, Aborigenes make up 24% of the overall prison population in Australia . 
noLabel	The costs of these provisions are offset by taxes, fees, and cost-saving measures, such as new Medicare taxes for those in high-income brackets, taxes on indoor tanning, cuts to the Medicare Advantage program in favor of traditional Medicare, and fees on medical devices and pharmaceutical companies; there is also a tax penalty for those who do not obtain health insurance, unless they are exempt due to low income or other reasons .	The Congressional Budget Office estimates that the net effect of both laws will be a reduction in the federal deficit by $143 billion over the first decade .
noLabel	Additionally, censorship prevents Chinese citizens from discovering or learning more about past and current failures of the Communist Party that could create or inflame anti-government sentiment.	Measures such as the blocking of foreign governments' websites may also be intended to prevent citizens from learning about alternative systems of governance and demanding similar systems. 
noLabel	Friedman's challenges to what he later called "naive Keynesian" (as opposed to New Keynesian) theory began with his 1950s reinterpretation of the consumption function, and he became the main advocate opposing activist Keynesian government policies .	In the late 1960s he described his own approach (along with all of mainstream economics) as using "Keynesian language and apparatus" yet rejecting its "initial" conclusions .
noLabel	Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington was founded in 2003 to expose, deter and litigate legal and ethical wrongdoing by members of Congress.	The idea for the organization originated in part with co-founder Norman Eisen, as a counter-weight to conservative watchdog groups like Judicial Watch .
noLabel	Index on Censorship works in partnership with all the major groups working for freedom of expression rights, including Amnesty International, the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), Liberty, English PEN, International PEN and many other groups to create landmark events of national and international significance.	Index was one four international freedom of expression organisations on the programming committee of the First Global Forum on Freedom of Expression in Oslo June 1 – 6 2009. 
noLabel	350.org is an international environmental organization, headed by author Bill McKibben, with the goal of building a global grassroots movement to raise awareness of anthropogenic climate change, to confront climate change denial, and to cut emissions of one of the greenhouse gases, carbon dioxide, in order to slow the rate of global warming.	350.org takes its name from the research of NASA scientist James E. Hansen, who posited in a 2007 paper that 350 parts-per-million (ppm) of CO2 in the atmosphere is a safe upper limit to avoid a climate tipping point . 
noLabel	They feel that their children benefit from coming in contact with people of diverse ages and backgrounds in a variety of contexts.	They also feel that their children benefit from having some ability to influence what people they encounter, and in what contexts they encounter them.
noLabel	In cases of crimes committed not within any county, the trial may by law be in such county as the laws shall have prescribed.	In suits at common law, between man and man, the trial by jury, as one of the best securities to the rights of the people, ought to remain inviolate. 
noLabel	Stanford University political scientist Professor Rob Reich  (not to be confused with former U.S. Secretary of Labor, Robert Reich) wrote in The Civic Perils of Homeschooling (2002) that homeschooling can potentially give students a one-sided point of view, as their parents may, even unwittingly, block or diminish all points of view but their own in teaching.	He also argues that homeschooling, by reducing students' contact with peers, reduces their sense of civic engagement with their community . 
noLabel	The term Compact City was first coined in 1973 by George Dantzig and Thomas L. Saaty, two mathematicians whose utopian vision was largely driven by a desire to see more efficient use of resources.	The concept, as it has influenced urban planning, is often attributed to Jane Jacobs and her book The Death and Life of Great American Cities (1961), a critique of modernist planning policies claimed by Jacobs to be destroying many existing inner-city communities. 
noLabel	On April 17, 2009, head of the IMF Dominique Strauss-Kahn said that there was a chance that certain countries may not implement the proper policies to avoid feedback mechanisms that could eventually turn the recession into a depression.	"The free-fall in the global economy may be starting to abate, with a recovery emerging in 2010, but this depends crucially on the right policies being adopted today."
noLabel	The largest period of decline occurred in a dramatic "bleaching" event in 1998, where approximately 16% of all the coral reefs in the world disappeared in less than a year.	Coral bleaching is caused by a mixture of environmental stresses, including increases in ocean temperatures and acidity, causing both the release of symbiotic algae and death of corals .
noLabel	The most striking example consists in two areas, Alsace and Moselle (see here for further detail), where the Concordat between France and the Holy See still prevails, Catholic priests as well as the clergy of three other religions (Lutheran, Calvinist, and Jewish) are paid by the state, and schools have religion courses.	Moreover, the Catholic bishops of Metz and Strasburg are named (or rather formally appointed) by the French Head of State on proposition of the Pope, which interestingly makes the French President the only temporal power in the world to have retained the right to appoint Catholic bishops, all other catholic bishops being appointed by the Pope. 
noLabel	"Little Emperors" is a name that refers to only children in the People's Republic of China after the one-child policy was implemented.	Attributed most frequently to increased spending power within the family unit and the parents' desire for their child to experience the benefits they were denied, the syndrome results from the children's sole command of the attention of their parents and grandparents.
noLabel	In Bangladesh, the shortened term "Matric" refers to the Secondary School Examination (SSC) taken at year 10, before Intermediate Exams taken in subsequent two years prior to university entry.	Bangladesh like the rest of Indian sub-continent continued to use terms such as Matriculation Exams and Intermediate Exams taken from the days of the British Raj although these terms were replaced in England itself with O' or Ordinary Level Examinations (now called GCSE) and A' or Advanced Level Examinations respectively.
noLabel	At the moment, abuse is seen as an early form or less hazardous form of the disease characterized with the dependence criteria.	However, the APA's 'dependence' term, as noted above, does not mean that physiologic dependence is present but rather means that a disease state is present, one that most would likely refer to as an addicted state.
noLabel	These goals should stimulate a sense of citizenship, and enhance the relation between the Chiapas government and the 155,000 inhabitants of the 830 communities located around the protected area of the Lacandon Jungle: the Montes Azules Biosphere Reserve.	This population, which is mainly indigenous and rural, has the highest levels of poverty and marginalization in the State of Chiapas, and of Mexico as a whole. 
noLabel	The effectiveness of a birth control method is generally expressed by how many women become pregnant using the method in the first year of use.	Thus, if 100 women use a method that has a 0 percent first-year failure rate, then 0 of the women should become pregnant during the first year of use.
noLabel	If a "clinch" &ndash; a defensive move in which a boxer wraps his or her opponents arms and holds on to create a pause &ndash; is broken by the referee, each fighter must take a full step back before punching again (alternatively, the referee may direct the fighters to "punch out" of the clinch).	When a boxer is knocked down, the other boxer must immediately cease fighting and move to the furthest neutral corner of the ring until the referee has either ruled a knockout or called for the fight to continue. 
noLabel	As the Christian biologist Scott C. Todd put it "Even if all the data pointed to an intelligent designer, such a hypothesis is excluded from science because it is not naturalistic.	" This argument limits the domain of science to the empirically observable and limits the domain of God to the unprovable.
noLabel	The next day, 13 February 2008, Jyllands-Posten, and many other Danish newspapers including Politiken and Berlingske Tidende, reprinted Westergaard's Bomb in the Turban cartoon, as a statement of commitment to freedom of speech .	The liberal newspaper Politiken had been critical of the original publication of the cartoons, but reprinted this one now as a gesture of solidarity in the face of a specific threat . 
noLabel	Although migration to urban areas has been restricted since the late 1950s, as of the end of 1985 about 33 percent of the population was urban.	An urban and industrial corridor formed a broad arc stretching from Harbin in the northeast through the Beijing area and south to China's largest city, the industrial metropolitan complex of Shanghai. 
noLabel	As in conflict criminology, it focuses on why things change, identifying the disruptive forces in industrialized societies, and describing how society is divided by power, wealth, prestige, and the perceptions of the world.	"The shape and character of the legal system in complex societies can be understood as deriving from the conflicts inherent in the structure of these societies which are stratified economically and politically" (Chambliss, 1971, p3).
noLabel	The European Union's executive Commission proposed a European Union-wide anti-racism xenophobia law in 2001, which included the criminalization of Holocaust denial.	On July 15, 1996, the Council of the European Union adopted the Joint action/96/443/JHA concerning action to combat racism and xenophobia .
noLabel	There are two entrenched interests that have opinions about the tobacco industry: (a) participants in the industry, and (b) people affected by the deaths attributable to tobacco use.	These interests conflict as they involve large amounts of money, long-held (historically) belief systems, and the premature deaths of loved family members. 
noLabel	Paul has also said that at the federal level he opposes “efforts to redefine marriage as something other than a union between one man and one woman.” He believes that recognizing or legislating marriages should be left to the states and local communities, and not subjected to "judicial activism.	" He has said that for these reasons he would have voted for the Defense of Marriage Act, had he been in Congress in 1996.
noLabel	The reasons for delaying marriage were to ensure the birth of healthy children, but the effect was to spare Spartan women the hazards and lasting health damage associated with pregnancy among adolescents.	Spartan women, better fed from childhood and fit from exercise, stood a far better chance of reaching old age than their sisters in other Greek cities, where the median age for death was 34.6 years or roughly ten years below that of men . 
noLabel	When the Sonderkommando had finished with the bodies, the SS conducted spot checks to make sure all the gold had been removed from the victims' mouths.	If a check revealed that gold had been missed, the Sonderkommando prisoner responsible was thrown into the furnace alive as punishment . 
noLabel	Medications are typically produced by pharmaceutical companies and are often patented to give the developer exclusive rights to produce them, but they can also be derived from naturally occurring substance in plants called herbal medicine.	Those that are not patented (or with expired patents) are called generic drugs since they can be produced by other companies without restrictions or licenses from the patent holder.
noLabel	New Right therefore adopts the language of "realism" to describe the lawmaking process, instead of addressing the causes of the "crimes" being created.	James Q. Wilson who was President Reagan's adviser on crime, for example, rejects the idea that crime has "root causes" that can be found in the structural contexts of people's lives.
noLabel	Since 1949, the government of People's Republic of China has actively promoted the social, economic and political roles of women in society.	While advancing progress in promoting equality among men and women, the efforts met resistance in a traditionally Neo-Confucian society of male superiority.
noLabel	He instead, as the title of the book suggests, examines the social conditions that brought about the production of the Encyclopédie.	This is representative of the social interpretation as a whole – an examination of the social conditions that brought about Enlightenment ideas rather than a study of the ideas themselves. 
noLabel	[Nutt]Though some argue this has not been the case outside of tactical RPGs, while others argue that combat systems in Japanese RPGs are too complex or lack accessibility .	As a result, Japanese-style role-playing games are held in disdain by some Western gamers, leading to the term "JRPG" being held in the pejorative . 
noLabel	Labelled drug-related expenditures are defined as the direct ex-ante planned spending that reflects the voluntary engagement of the state in the field of illicit drugs.	Direct public expenditures explicitly labeled as drug-related can be easily traced back by exhaustively reviewing official accountancy documents such as national budgets and year-end reports.
noLabel	The symbol was used to represent the sovereign authority of the King over France during the reign of the Bourbon monarchs .	However, the monarchy was not the only ruling power in French history to use the symbol of Hercules to declare its power. 
noLabel	Eisaku Satō was presented with the Nobel Peace Prize in 1974, in large part for his work toward Japan's entry into the NPT.	In his Nobel Lecture (on the seventh anniversary of his original statement to the Diet), Satō reiterated and discussed the Three Non-Nuclear Principles and expressed hope and confidence that future governments would adopt them as well .
noLabel	For example, Portland, Oregon a U.S. city which has pursued smart growth policies, substantially increased its population density between 1990 and 2000 when other US cities of a similar size were reducing in density.	As predicted by the paradox, traffic volumes and congestion both increased more rapidly than in the other cities, despite a substantial increase in transit use. 
noLabel	Greenpeace advocates reduction of fossil fuels by 50% by 2050 as well as phasing out nuclear energy, contending that innovative technologies can increase energy efficiency, and suggests that by 2050 the majority of electricity will be generated from renewable sources .	The International Energy Agency estimates that nearly 50% of global electricity supplies will need to come from renewable energy sources in order to halve carbon dioxide emissions by 2050 and minimise significant, irreversible climate change impacts .
noLabel	Thereafter, television networks have voluntarily adopted the policy of not projecting any victor within a state until all polls have closed for that state.	In the 2000 U.S. Presidential election it was alleged that media organizations released exit poll results for Florida before the polls closed in the Florida panhandle. 
noLabel	Similar to the reasoning of the Court of Appeal, Major found that the pith and substance of the Act was within the authority of the province under section 92(13) of the Constitution Act, 1867.	The subject matter of the Act, compensation for health costs, and the effect, suing companies who harmed those in the province, all point at a valid provincial law.
noLabel	In 1986, Mordechai Vanunu, a former technician at the Dimona plant, revealed to the media some evidence of Israel's nuclear program.	Israeli agents arrested him from Italy, drugged him and transported him to Israel, and an Israeli court then tried him in secret on charges of treason and espionage , and sentenced him to eighteen years imprisonment.
noLabel	Economic factors such as male-majority industries and activities like the petrochemical, agriculture, engineering, military, and technology also have created a male gender imbalance in some areas dependent on one of these industries.	Conversely, the entertainment, banking, tourism, fashion, and service industries may have resulted in a female-majority gender imbalance in some areas dependent on them . 
noLabel	Democratic education is a theory of learning and school governance in which students and staff participate freely and equally in a school democracy.	A Democratic School takes the Free School concept one step further by sharing the decision-making among students and staff on all matters (living, working, learning, etc.
noLabel	Also, younger rural women are less likely to become pregnant, possess nimble fingers, more able to work longer hours, and are less knowledgeable about their statutory rights .	For the women who are able to gain employment, they then face the possibility of being forced to sign a contract prohibiting them from getting pregnant or married during their period of employment .
noLabel	An alternative argument is that the way to 'save the environment' and prevent famine is by using pesticides and intensive high yield farming, a view exemplified by a quote heading the Center for Global Food Issues website: 'Growing more per acre leaves more land for nature' .	However, critics argue that a trade-off between the environment and a need for food is not inevitable, and that pesticides simply replace good agronomic practices such as crop rotation .
noLabel	However, mostly over the issue of abolition and other scandals, the Whigs would ultimately collapse by the middle of the century, leaving a void in the national leadership which the fledgling Republican Party, led by Abraham Lincoln, would fill.	Lincoln, who called himself a "Henry Clay tariff Whig", strongly opposed free trade, as did a large number of Southern leaders who nonetheless argued for less protectionism.
noLabel	Iran furnished the IAEA with copies, claiming not to have used the information for weapons work, which it had obtained along with other technology and parts in 1987 and the mid-1990s .	It is thought this material was sold to them by Abdul Qadeer Khan, though the documents did not have the necessary technical details to actually manufacture a bomb. 
noLabel	Obama sponsored legislation that would have required nuclear plant owners to notify state and local authorities of radioactive leaks, but the bill failed to pass in the full Senate after being heavily modified in committee .	Regarding tort reform, Obama voted for the Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 and the FISA Amendments Act of 2008, which grants immunity from civil liability to telecommunications companies complicit with NSA warrantless wiretapping operations .
noLabel	It will also have to service its debts from a special, separate escrow account, depositing sums in advance to meet payments that fall due in the following three months.	This operation will be supervised by the troika: the International Monetary Fund, the European Union and the European Central Bank . 
noLabel	Early modern European medical science was still to a great extent based on humorism, the idea that everything had a specific humoral nature that varied between hot and cold, dry and moist.	Tobacco was often seen as something that was beneficial in its heating and drying properties and was assigned an endless list of beneficial properties.
noLabel	WikiLeaks has been predominantly represented in public since January 2007 by Julian Assange, who is now generally recognised as the "founder of WikiLeaks" .	According to Wired magazine, a volunteer said that Assange described himself in a private conversation as "the heart and soul of this organisation, its founder, philosopher, spokesperson, original coder, organizer, financier, and all the rest" . 
noLabel	Shortly after becoming President of the United States, Barack Obama directed newly appointed special envoy to the Middle East George J. Mitchell to visit Israel, the West Bank, Egypt, Jordan, Turkey and Saudi Arabia for peace talks.	Mitchell began his meetings in Cairo on 27 January 2009 and Obama said his visit was part of the President's campaign promise to listen to both sides of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and work toward a Middle East peace deal.
noLabel	McCain continued his opposition to a holiday for King by supporting Governor of Arizona Evan Mecham's rescinding of the Arizona state holiday for King in 1987 .	By 1989, McCain reiterated his opposition to the federal holiday, but reversed position on the state holiday, due to the economic boycotts and image problems Arizona was receiving as a result of it not having one . 
noLabel	 He echoed a significant minority of conservatives in Upper Canada who critiqued Canada's imitation of the British parliamentary constitutional monarchy as both too democratic and too tyrannical, theorizing that it simultaneously destroyed the independence of the appointed governor and legislative council, and further concentrated power in the Cabinet.	Instead, these "republican conservatives" preferred the American federal-state system and the US constitution, seeing the American model of checks and balances as offering Canada a more fair and conservative form of democracy.
noLabel	On August 5, 2011, representatives from S&P announced the company's decision to give a first-ever downgrade to U.S. sovereign debt, lowering the rating one notch to "AA+", with a negative outlook.	S&P wrote: "The downgrade reflects our opinion that the fiscal consolidation plan that Congress and the Administration recently agreed to falls short of what, in our view, would be necessary to stabilize the government's medium-term debt dynamics..the effectiveness,
noLabel	In practical or pragmatic atheism, also known as apatheism, individuals live as if there are no gods and explain natural phenomena without resorting to the divine.	The existence of gods is not rejected, but may be designated unnecessary or useless; gods neither provide purpose to life, nor influence everyday life, according to this view .
noLabel	In 2007 New Zealand's Minister of Māori Affairs Parekura Horomia described the Declaration as "toothless", and said, "There are four provisions we have problems with, which make the declaration fundamentally incompatible with New Zealand's constitutional and legal arrangements."	Article 26 in particular, he said, "appears to require recognition of rights to lands now lawfully owned by other citizens, both indigenous and non-indigenous.
noLabel	However, since the Meiji period, the Imperial Household Agency has refused to open the kofun to the public or to archaeologists, citing their desire not to disturb the spirits of the past emperors as justification for their refusal.	But in December 2006, the Imperial Household Agency reversed its position and decided to allow researchers to enter some of the kofun with no restrictions.
noLabel	The declaration has served as the foundation for two binding UN human rights covenants, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the principles of the Declaration are elaborated in international treaties such as the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, the International Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, the United Nations Convention Against Torture and many more.	The Declaration continues to be widely cited by governments, academics, advocates and constitutional courts and individual human beings who appeal to its principles for the protection of their recognised human rights.
noLabel	International, regional and national standards also recognize that freedom of speech, as the freedom of expression, includes any medium, be it orally, in written, in print, through the Internet or through art forms.	This means that the protection of freedom of speech as a right includes not only the content, but also the means of expression .
noLabel	The phrase open source emphasizes the right of users to study, change, and improve the source code—that is, the detailed design—of FOSS applications.	Software that qualifies as free almost always also qualifies as open source, and vice versa, since both phrases derive from the same set of software user rights formulated in the late 1980s by Richard Stallman of the Free Software Foundation. 
noLabel	Finally, an applicant aggrieved by a decision of the federal appeals court can petition the U.S. Supreme Court to review the case by a discretionary writ of certiorari.	But the Supreme Court has no duty to review an immigration case, and so many applicants for asylum forego this final step. 
noLabel	Much of the deadliness of the epidemic in sub-Saharan Africa has to do with a deadly synergy between HIV and tuberculosis, though this synergy is by no means limited to Africa.	In fact, tuberculosis is the world's greatest infectious killer of women of reproductive age and the leading cause of death among people with HIV/AIDS . 
noLabel	Soon after in 1999, the Internet Gambling Prohibition Act was introduced, meaning a company could not offer any online gambling product to any U.S citizen, this did not pass .	Multiplayer online gambling was also introduced in 1999, this was the first time people could gamble, chat and interact with each other in an interactive environment. 
noLabel	Since the two-round system requires more information from each voter than a single ordinal ballot provides, one can't fit the criteria that are formulated expressly for voters with ordinal preferences without making a generalization as to how the voters will behave.	The same problem exists in Approval voting, where one has to make assumptions as to how the voters will place their approval cutoffs. 
noLabel	From 2002 until his election as Pope, he was also Dean of the College of Cardinals, and as such the primus inter pares among the cardinals.	Prior to becoming Pope, he was "a major figure on the Vatican stage for a quarter of a century" as "one of the most respected, influential and controversial members of the College of Cardinals"; he had an influence "second to none when it came to setting church priorities and directions" as one of Pope John Paul II's closest confidants . 
noLabel	Not until the mid-20th century did efforts arise to target individual species for conservation, notably efforts in big cat conservation in South America led by the New York Zoological Society .	In the early 20th century the New York Zoological Society was instrumental in developing concepts of establishing preserves for particular species and conducting the necessary conservation studies to determine the suitability of locations that are most appropriate as conservation priorities; the work of Henry Fairfield Osborn Jr., Carl E. Akeley, Archie Carr and Archie Carr III is notable in this era .
noLabel	Further research into this and other game theory aspects of voting led Steven Brams and Peter Fishburn to formally define and promote the use of approval voting in 1977.	While approval voting had been used before that, it had not been named or considered as an object of academic study, particularly because it violated the assumption made by most research that single-winner methods were based on cardinal preference rankings . 
noLabel	In the Japanese drama 14-sai no Haha: Aisuru tame ni Umaretekita, the protagonist Miki Ichinose becomes pregnant with her boyfriend's child at age 14.	The show examines the impact of her pregnancy on her, her family, her school life, the life of her boyfriend and his family, and the society in which she resides. 
noLabel	Before any local, national, or international deforestation policies are written and enforced, governmental leaders must acquire a detailed understanding of the complex combination of proximate causes and underlying driving forces of deforestation in a given area or country .	This concept, along with many other results about tropical deforestation from the Geist and Lambin study, can easily be applied to habitat destruction in general.
noLabel	Graphic and gory violence has started appearing in music videos in recent times, a good example being the highly controversial music video for the song Rock DJ by British rock vocalist Robbie Williams, which features extreme, explicit self-mutilation.	Another example of a music video containing very strong violence is the equally controversial music video for the song Hurricane by American rock band 30 Seconds to Mars.
noLabel	Apart from certain forms of heavily cured and strong snuff, the cigar is the most potent form of self-dosing with tobacco, it has long had associations of being a male rite of passage, as it may have had during the pre-Columbian era in America.	Its fumes and rituals have in American and European cultures established a "men's hut"; in the 19th century, men would retire to the "smoking room" after dinner to discuss serious issues.
noLabel	Another suggestion is that the problem of evil's argument is logically flawed because it silently assumes that people really can comprehend what God should do.	In other words, for the problem of evil to be valid, it must be proven that there can be no god which cannot be so comprehended .
noLabel	In a 2007 study called "Reefer Madness" in the journal Criminology and Public Policy, Harcourt and Ludwig found further evidence confirming that mean reversion fully explained the changes in crime rates in the different precincts in New York during the 1990s.	Further alternative explanations that have been put forward include the waning of the crack epidemic, unrelated growth in the prison population due to Rockefeller drug laws, and that the number of males aged 16–24 was dropping regardless due to the shape of the US population pyramid .
noLabel	A few minutes later at 11:00, The Great Artiste, the support B-29 flown by Captain Frederick C. Bock, dropped instruments attached to three parachutes.	These instruments also contained an unsigned letter to Professor Ryokichi Sagane, a nuclear physicist at the University of Tokyo who studied with three of the scientists responsible for the atomic bomb at the University of California, Berkeley, urging him to tell the public about the danger involved with these weapons of mass destruction.
noLabel	In November 2005, the World YWCA called on national health ministries and international donors to commit to purchasing 180 million female condoms for global distribution in 2006, stating that "Female condoms remain the only tool for HIV prevention that women can initiate and control," but that they remain virtually inaccessible to women in the developing world due to their high cost of 72¢ per piece.	If 180 million female condoms were ordered, the price of a single female condom was projected to decline to 22¢ . 
noLabel	Palin opposed state-covered health and retiree benefits to same-sex partners of state employees but complied with an Alaska Supreme Court directive to do so and subsequently vetoed a bill that would have denied the benefits .	In an interview with Newsweek in 2007, she affirmed her support for an amendment to the state constitution denying benefits to same-sex couples .
noLabel	Succession is currently governed by male-preference cognatic primogeniture, under which sons inherit before daughters, and elder children inherit before younger ones of the same gender.	However, on Friday 28 October 2011, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, David Cameron, announced at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Perth that all 16 Commonwealth realms, including the United Kingdom, had unanimously agreed to abolish the gender-preference rule .
noLabel	Appeals would be required to go through the state court system after leaving the pupil assignment board; in the meantime, the child would remain at their original school (a process intended to delay the assignment of a black student to an all-white school) .	To ensure that the plan was a "local option," both the school board and the local pupil assignment board would need to adopt a pupil assignment plan, or state funds would be cut off .
noLabel	According to a study of wind in the United States, ten or more widely-separated wind farms connected through the grid could be relied upon for from 33 to 47% of their average output (15–20% of nominal capacity) as reliable, baseload power, as long as minimum criteria are met for wind speed and turbine height .	When calculating the generating capacity available to meet peak demand, [ERCOT] (manages Texas grid) counts wind generation at 8.7% of nameplate capacity . 
noLabel	It is not known if this missile is actually capable of carrying the nuclear weapons North Korea has so far developed.	The BM-25 is a North Korean designed long-range ballistic missile with range capabilities of up to , and could carry a nuclear warhead .
noLabel	Neither the question of the entry of the soul before birth nor the claim to salvation after death have any practical bearing on the subject."	Although halakhic regulations works strenuously to protect the unborn child, he says that "none of these regulations necessarily prove that the foetus enjoys human inviolability."
noLabel	In June 2006 the group handed in a petition of over 3,000 names to 10 Downing Street calling for a serious national debate about the future of the monarchy.	Since then Republic has lobbied on changes to the parliamentary oath of allegiance, royal finances and changes to the Freedom of Information Act relating to the monarchy, none of which have produced any change. 
noLabel	Though no credence was placed in the story by SCAP officials, it was nonetheless thought necessary to get comments from Japanese scientists who would or should have known about such a project.	Bunsaku Arakatsu called the article "false and fantastic" as he was personally acquainted with the few people capable of such a project, and said that Japan's nuclear research had never progressed beyond the laboratory stage, nor had any thought been given to the construction of a pilot plant for the production of nuclear material.
noLabel	The project is expected to produce an average of 170 megawatts of electricity, about 75% of the average electricity demand for Cape Cod, Martha's Vineyard, and Nantucket island combined .	It could offset close to a million tons of carbon dioxide every year and should produce enough electricity to offset the consumption of of oil annually . 
noLabel	Thus, the roles internalized by the child, including gender, become for the child, and later for the adult, a basis for other roles and for action.	Thus, the gender role that is internalized by the individual when she or he is young necessarily has a significant impact upon the perspective of that individual and the additional roles she or he assumes in later life.
noLabel	He for decades had been close to the National Woman's Party and its leader Alice Paul, one of the leaders in winning the vote for women back in 1920 and the chief supporter of equal rights proposals since then.	She and other feminists had worked with Smith since 1945 trying to find a way to include sex as a protected civil rights category.
noLabel	Early Church Fathers pointed to the Gospel of Mark, which describes Jesus labelling men or women who divorced and remarried as adulterers.	Gregory of Nazianzus wrote vehemently against the practice of punishing women who committed adultery while overlooking the same acts by men. 
noLabel	The process was refined further to include a furnace in which heat from the charcoal was applied through flues, so that dark soot and off flavors did not come in contact with the tobacco .	This changed the curing process of a lighter leaf and produced a new, lighter tobacco which was able to be inhaled.
noLabel	The specific categories reveal further insight into the specific causes of tropical deforestation: transport extension (64%), commercial wood extraction (52%), permanent cultivation (48%), cattle ranching (46%), shifting (slash and burn) cultivation (41%), subsistence agriculture (40%), and fuel wood extraction for domestic use (28%).	One result is that shifting cultivation is not the primary cause of deforestation in all world regions, while transport extension (including the construction of new roads) is the largest single proximate factor responsible for deforestation .
noLabel	In 2005 on a school bus in Montgomery County, Maryland, an 11-year old girl was attacked by a group of several older boys who, the girl said, grabbed her breasts and feigned sex acts.	Also in 2005 on a school bus in Colonial Heights, Virginia, south of Richmond, Virginia, three boys and two girls aged 8 to 13 held an 11-year-old girl down in the back of the bus and forcefully penetrated her with an object .
noLabel	I brought controls to the Tour in the wake of Tom Simpson's death in 1967 - and the riders went on strike.	After the discoveries made [in to the so-called 1998 Festina scandal, see below], I feel real resentment towards the medical and scientific powers who deceived us for 30 years.
noLabel	SLAPPs take various forms but the most common is a civil suit for defamation, which in the English common law tradition is a tort.	The common law of libel dates to the early 17th century and (unusual in English law) is reverse onus, meaning, once accused, the defendant is presumed guilty until they can prove innocence.
noLabel	Three years later, the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), the first international legal document to delineate human rights; the UDHR does not mention reproductive rights.	Reproductive rights began to appear as a subset of human rights in the 1968 Proclamation of Teheran, which states: "Parents have a basic right to decide freely and responsibly on the number and spacing of their children and a right to adequate education and information in this respect" . 
noLabel	Once underway the Soviets conducted a much more vigorous program than the Americans' Operation Plowshare, consisting of some 156 nuclear tests, some with multiple devices, between 1965 and 1989.	These tests were similar in aims to the American effort, with the exception that six of the shots were considered of an applied nature, that is they were not tests per se, but were used to put out runaway gas well fires and a methane blow out. 
noLabel	Unfortunately, Moore's law does not apply to hauling people and freight; the underlying energy requirements for transportation remain much higher than for information and entertainment applications.	Battery capacity has become an issue as pressure grows for alternatives to internal combustion engines in cars, trucks, buses, trains, ships, and airplanes.
noLabel	I think that historically you look at all the records that have been set by athletes we assume had not been using steroids for enhanced performance, Shuman said.	So all of a sudden, now we see that a lot of these guys are using them -- the home run hitters, the guys who can run faster than anyone else.
noLabel	Some of the research undertaken or supported by WHO to determine how people's lifestyles and environments are influencing whether they live in better or worse health can be controversial, as illustrated by a 2003 joint WHO/FAO report on nutrition and the prevention of chronic non-communicable disease, which recommended that sugar should form no more than 10% of a healthy diet.	This report led to lobbying by the sugar industry against the recommendation, to which the WHO/FAO responded by including in the report the statement "The Consultation recognized that a population goal for free sugars of less than 10% of total energy is controversial", but also stood by its recommendation based upon its own analysis of scientific studies .
noLabel	Natural disturbances include hurricanes, volcanic eruptions, river movements or an event as small as a fallen tree that creates gaps in the forest.	In tropical rainforests, these same natural disturbances have been well documented in the fossil record, and are credited with encouraging speciation and endemism .
noLabel	Sessions also served as the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee during the nomination process for Elena Kagan, President Obama’s nominee to succeed retired Justice John Paul Stevens.	Sessions based his opposition on the nominee’s lack of experience, her background as a political operative (Kagan had said that she worked in the Clinton White House not as a lawyer but as a policy adviser), and her record on guns,abortion, and gay rights.
noLabel	Hitler already referred to Marxism and "Bolshevism" as a means of "the international Jew" to undermine "racial purity" and survival of the Nordics or Aryans, as well to stir up socioeconomic class tension and labor unions against the government or state-owned businesses.	Within the concentration camps such as Buchenwald, German communists were privileged in comparison to Jews because of their "racial purity" . 
noLabel	In many cases the bonds permit state and local governments to transfer the risk of declines in future master settlement agreement payments to bondholders.	In some cases, however, the bonds are backed by secondary pledges of state or local revenues, which creates what some see as a perverse incentive to support the tobacco industry, on whom they are now dependent for future payments against this debt .
noLabel	Genesis explains circumcision as a covenant with God given to Abraham, but liberal scholars reject the historicity of these accounts and look elsewhere for the origin of Jewish circumcision.	The most common historical explanation, dating from Herodotus, is that the custom was acquired from the Egyptians, possibly during the period of enslavement .
noLabel	The patchwork of laws means that victims of retaliation need to be alert to the laws at issue to determine the deadlines and means for making proper complaints.	Some deadlines are as short as 10 days (for Arizona State Employees to file a "Prohibited Personnel Practice" Complaint before the Arizona State Personnel Board; and Ohio public employees to file appeals with the State Personnel Board of Review).
noLabel	It exploded 43 seconds later at above the ground halfway between the Mitsubishi Steel and Arms Works in the south and the Mitsubishi-Urakami Ordnance Works (Torpedo Works) in the north.	This was nearly northwest of the planned hypocenter; the blast was confined to the Urakami Valley and a major portion of the city was protected by the intervening hills .
noLabel	African-American students are also likely to receive different messages about the importance of education, but from their peer group and from their parents.	Many young African-Americans are told by their parents to concentrate on school and do well academically, which is similar to the message that many middle-class white students receive.
noLabel	Since 2000 the concept of landscape scale conservation has risen to prominence, with less emphasis being given to single-species or even single-habitat focused actions.	Instead an ecosystem approach is advocated by most mainstream conservationist, although concerns have been expressed by those working to protect some high-profile species. 
noLabel	The justification for affirmative action is that it helps to compensate for past discrimination, persecution or exploitation by the ruling class of a culture, and to address existing discrimination .	The implementation of affirmative action, especially in the United States, is considered by its proponents to be justified by disparate impact.
noLabel	The market for performance enhancing drugs, such as EPO (erythropoietin) is big, in 2001 alone, EPO--generated more than $5 billion for inventor Amgen (2).	Question is what is the appropriate measure to deal with performance enhancing drugs – is there a way to control them and is there any sense in controlling them at all.
noLabel	Some of these species are functionally extinct, as they are no longer part of their natural habitat and it is unlikely the species will ever be restored to the wild .	When possible, modern zoological institutions attempt to maintain a viable population for species preservation and possible future reintroduction to the wild through use of carefully planned breeding programs. 
noLabel	‡ Pursuant to NCAA sanctions, running back Reggie Bush was declared retroactively ineligible for the 2005 Orange Bowl and the entire 2005–06 season.	USC's participation in the 2006 Rose Bowl was vacated by the BCS committee on June 6, 2011 after the NCAA denied appeal of sanctions.
noLabel	Extinction is an important research topic in the field of zoology, and biology in general, and has also become an area of concern outside the scientific community.	A number of organizations, such as the Worldwide Fund for Nature, have been created with the goal of preserving species from extinction.
noLabel	The political philosopher Charles Blattberg has criticized the Charter for contributing to the fragmentation of the country, at both the individual and group levels.	In encouraging discourse based upon rights, the Charter is said to inject an adversarial spirit into Canadian politics, making it difficult to realize the common good.
noLabel	An IBM mainframe operating system, Airline Control Program (ACP), from 1967 reportedly distributed its source code in a way very similar to the way free software is now .	User groups such as that of the IBM 701, called SHARE, and that of Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), called DECUS were formed to facilitate the exchange of software. 
noLabel	During World War II, the United States created internment camps for Japanese American citizens in fear that they would be used as spies for the Japanese .	Currently implemented immigration laws are still largely plagued with national origin-based quotas that is unfavorable to Asian countries due to large populations and historically low U.S. immigration rates .
noLabel	Although there is no scientific agreement on when physical maturation completes, in modern society social adulthood somewhat corresponds to the completion of physical maturation.	Because the term adult is most often used without the adjective social or biological, and since the term is frequently used to refer to social adults, some writers have taken the meaning of the two word phrase biological adult to begin at the end of physical maturation rather than the onset of puberty. 
noLabel	On 30 July 2008 the Non-Aligned Movement welcomed the continuing cooperation of Iran with the IAEA and reaffirmed Iran's right to the peaceful uses of nuclear technology.	The movement further called for the establishment of a nuclear weapons free zone in the Middle East and called for a comprehensive multilaterally negotiated instrument which prohibits threats of attacks on nuclear facilities devoted to peaceful uses of nuclear energy .
noLabel	|- Toronto 2,000 The first protest, held on December 28, attracted 800 people, while a 3 January protest counted 2,000 demonstrators.	A January 7 sit-in protest by 8 Jewish women inside the Israeli consulate, who did "not want this massacre to take place in our name", resulted in their arrest and subsequent release without charge .
noLabel	In the mid-1980s, when no effective medication was yet available for AIDS treatment, Paul spoke publicly against all federal funding for AIDS research .	He also wrote, in his book Freedom Under Siege, published in 1987, “Victims of the disease AIDS argue .. for crash research programs (to be paid for by people who don't have AIDS), demanding a cure..
noLabel	As to condition four, the high priority allocated to the Manhattan Project allowed for the recruitment and concentration of capable scientists on the project.	In Germany, on the other hand, a great many young scientists and technicians who would have been of great use to such a project were conscripted into the German armed forces, while others had fled the country before the war due to antisemitism and political persecution . 
noLabel	The INS Sindhuraj (Sanskrit: King of the Ocean), INS Sindhuvir (Sanskrit: Warrior of the Ocean), INS Sindhuratna (Sanskrit: Gem of the Ocean), INS Sindhushastra (Sanskrit: Weapon of the Ocean), INS Sindhukesari (Sanskrit: Lion of the Ocean) and INS Sindhuvijay (Sanskrit: Conqueror of the Ocean) are capable of launching 3M-54 Klub and BrahMos nuclear-capable cruise missiles .	India bought 10 Kilo class (in India known as Sindhughosh Class) submarine of which 6 have been refitted by the Russian Navy so that the they can launch cruise missiles such as the nuclear capable 3M-54 Klub. 
noLabel	A novel way to do this was spreading it on rural roads, which rural governments liked because the oily sand reduced dust and the oil companies did their road maintenance for them.	However, governments have become concerned about the large volume and composition of oil spread on roads, so in recent years disposing of oily sand in underground salt caverns has become more common.
noLabel	Before the vote, Governor Stanley said he would not insist on the provision in the funding cut-off bill which would deny funds to all public schools statewide if a single local jurisdiction integrated .	Also speaking before the group, Attorney General Almond said the McCue plan would not stop integration lawsuits and probably would violate the state constitution .
noLabel	Technically, these would be categorized as private schools, but many of them have the name "Public School" appended to them, e.g., the Galaxy Public School in Kathmandu.	Most of the middle class families send their children to such schools, which might be in their own city or far off, like boarding schools.
noLabel	Philosophers such as Georges Bataille, Slavoj Žižek, Alain de Botton, and Alexander Bard & Jan Söderqvist have all argued that atheists should reclaim religion as an act of defiance against theism, precisely not to leave religion as an unwarranted monopoly to theists.	Bataille set out to do this with his Atheology project in 1952-53 and de Botton returns to the idea in his work Religion for Atheists (2012).
noLabel	Deforestation also has impacts on social aspects of the country, specifically regarding economic issues, agriculture, conflict and most importantly, quality of life.	According to data taken over 2000 to 2005 Nigeria, located in the western region of Africa, has the largest deforestation rates in the world, having lost 55.7% of their primary forests .
noLabel	Yet, it not only impacted the development of female monastic life, but in turn influenced the proliferation of male monastic orders .	These monastic orders came to include key Catholic figures such as Doctor of the Church Teresa of Ávila, whose influence on practices such as Christian meditation continues to date . 
noLabel	The Bush administration has been criticized by columnist James Bovard of The American Conservative for requiring protesters to stay within a designated area, while allowing supporters access to more areas .	According to the Chicago Tribune, the American Civil Liberties Union has asked a federal court in Washington D.C. to prevent the Secret Service from keeping anti-Bush protesters distant from presidential appearances while allowing supporters to display their messages up close, where they are likely to be seen by the news media . 
noLabel	Therefore it is unlawful to treat a man less favourably than a woman, or a woman less favourably than a man, on the ground of the person's sex.	However people who are single are not protected against more favourable treatment of people in marriage or civil partnership, and non-disabled people are not protected if a disabled person is treated more favourably. 
noLabel	Teachers still tend to view math as a “masculine” subject and tend to have higher expectations for and better attitude towards their male students in these classes .	Studies have also shown that teachers tend to name males when asked to list their “best math students.” Females are more likely than males to be negatively impacted than male students by this underestimation of their math abilities . 
noLabel	The Justice Department's investigation and Utah Attorney General's lawsuit are both aimed at forcing the BCS to open its books, which they are as a non-profit required to do every year and have never done, and at determining whether the BCS is an illegal trust or cartel based on Sherman Anti-Trust Act of 1890, the Clayton Anti-Trust Act of 1914 and the Robinson-Patman Anti-Price Discrimination Act of 1936.	Two more states Attorneys General are said to be considering joining the Utah lawsuit, and the investigation by the Justice Department will probably include a minute and extensive examination of the Fiesta Bowl Scandal as well as conducting complete audits of the other BCS Bowls, the BCS itself and possibly even the schools of the 6 BCS Automatic Qualification Conferences. 
noLabel	While it is more complicated than other methods of voting in common use and is not a substitute for the normal procedure of repeated balloting until a majority is obtained, preferential voting is especially useful and fair in an election by mail if it is impractical to take more than one ballot.	In such cases it makes possible a more representative result than under a rule that a plurality shall elect.."Preferential voting has many variations.
noLabel	Speaking in 2006, Dov Weisglass, an advisor to Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, allegedly said that, "The idea is to put the Palestinians on a diet, but not to make them die of hunger.	" Although this quote is widely reported, the original quote appears to have been: "It's like an appointment with a dietician.
noLabel	However, Höss's testimony did not consist of merely a signed confession; he also wrote two volumes of memoirs and gave extensive testimony outside of the Nuremberg proceedings .	Further, his testimony agrees with that of other contemporary written accounts by Auschwitz officials, such as Pery Broad, an SS man stationed at Auschwitz while Höss was the commandant and the diary kept by SS physician at Auschwitz Johann Kremer, as well as the testimony of hundreds of camp guards and victims .
noLabel	The 21st century ushered in the acceptance and encouragement of internet research conducted on college and university campuses, in homes, and even in gathering areas of shopping centers.	Addition of cyber cafes on campuses and coffee shops, loaning of communication devices from libraries, and availability of more portable technology devices, opened up a world of educational resources.
noLabel	The Biosafety Protocol makes clear that products from new technologies must be based on the precautionary principle and allow developing nations to balance public health against economic benefits.	It will for example let countries ban imports of a genetically modified organism if they feel there is not enough scientific evidence the product is safe and requires exporters to label shipments containing genetically modified commodities such as corn or cotton. 
noLabel	On February 6, an Italian Catholic priest named Andrea Santoro was reported to have been shot dead at the door-step of his church in the Black Sea port city Trabzon.	The convict, arrested on February 7 who is a Turkish Muslim youth aged 16, told the public attorney that his action was motivated by cartoons protests . 
noLabel	Increased exposure to concussions and sub-concussive blows is regarded as the most important risk factor, which can depend on the total number of fights, number of knockout losses, the duration of career, fight frequency, age of retirement, and boxing style .	Findings in one study even suggest that boxers with high exposure may have a genetic susceptibility to developing more severe neurological deficits.
noLabel	During the Early Modern period (approximately late 1400s to 1800), the universities of Europe would see a tremendous amount of growth, productivity and innovative research.	At the end of the Middle Ages, about 400 years after the first university was founded, there were twenty-nine universities spread throughout Europe.
noLabel	In the Gitlow v. New York, 268 U.S. 652, (1925) case, the Supreme Court ruled that the Fourteenth Amendment, which had been adopted in 1868, could make certain applications of the Bill of Rights applicable to the states.	However, the Gitlow case stated (p.&nbsp;666): "For present purposes we may and do presume that freedom of speech and of the press&nbsp;— which are protected by the First Amendment from abridgment by Congress&nbsp;— are among the fundamental personal rights and 'liberties' protected by the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment from impairment by the States."
noLabel	Examples of the buildings and developments are Trellick Tower, Balfron Tower, Robin Hood Gardens and Keeling House in London, Hunslet Grange in Leeds and Park Hill, Sheffield.	These were an attempt to develop a new architecture, differentiated from earlier large housing estates, such as Quarry Hill flats in Leeds . 
noLabel	Four decades of investments in a missile-related design, development, and manufacturing infrastructure have also made this sector less vulnerable to long-term disruption by technology denial regimes.	More significantly, India's sophisticated civilian satellite launch capability makes it one of the few developing states theoretically capable of building an intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) .
noLabel	Tobacco use most commonly leads to diseases affecting the heart and lungs and will most commonly affect areas such as hands or feet with first signs of smoking related health issues showing up as numbness, with smoking being a major risk factor for heart attacks, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), emphysema, and cancer, particularly lung cancer, cancers of the larynx and mouth, and pancreatic cancer.	Overall life expectancy is also reduced in regular smokers, with estimates ranging from 10 to 17.9  years fewer than nonsmokers .
noLabel	Unemployment (or joblessness), as defined by the International Labour Organization, occurs when people are without jobs and they have actively sought work within the past four weeks .	The unemployment rate is a measure of the prevalence of unemployment and it is calculated as a percentage by dividing the number of unemployed individuals by all individuals currently in the labor force.
noLabel	Some cosmologists and physicists argue that a challenge to the cosmological argument is the nature of time, "One finds that time just disappears from the Wheeler–DeWitt equation" - Carlo Rovelli.	The Big Bang theory states that it is the point in which all dimensions came into existence, the start of both space and time .
noLabel	According to a 1998 survey of 400 biologists conducted by New York's American Museum of Natural History, nearly 70 percent believed that they were currently in the early stages of a human-caused extinction, known as the Holocene extinction.	In that survey, the same proportion of respondents agreed with the prediction that up to 20 percent of all living populations could become extinct within 30 years (by 2028).
noLabel	In Denmark, some public disturbances with burnt-out cars and a school set ablaze have followed these events, but the police are unsure if it is directly related to the cartoons controversy or the fact that the two Tunisians were subsequently sentenced to deportation without a trial .	Other sources claim the riots in the Nørrebro district of Copenhagen, which started before the arrests, were wholly unrelated to the cartoons controversy, and were rather set off by police harassment of ethnic minorities in areas of Copenhagen .
noLabel	Historically, eta were not liable for taxation in feudal times, including the Tokugawa period, because the taxation system was based on rice yields, which they were not permitted to possess.	Some outcasts were also called kawaramono (, "dried-up riverbed people") because they lived along river banks that could not be turned into rice fields. 
noLabel	Even modern nuclear reactors run the risk of accidents and failures, shortages of high quality uranium ore may be imminent and the thermoelectric fuel cycle of nuclear plants consumes and sometimes degrades vast quantities of water.	Greenhouse gas emissions associated with the nuclear lifecycle are notable and reactors and waste storage sites invariably damage and degrade the natural environment" .
noLabel	In the UK, around half of all pregnancies to under 18s are concentrated among the 30% most deprived population, with only 14% occurring among the 30% least deprived .	For example, in Italy, the teenage birth rate in the well-off central regions is only 3.3 per 1,000, while in the poorer Mezzogiorno it is 10.0 per 1,000 .
noLabel	Conformity with the TRIPs agreement is a requirement of admission to the WTO and so compliance is seen by many nations as important.	This has also led to many developing nations, which may historically have developed different laws to aid their development, enforcing patents laws in line with global practice. 
noLabel	It remains illegal for US residents to purchase or import Cuban cigars regardless of where they are in the world, although they are readily available across the northern border in Canada and the southern border in Mexico.	While Cuban cigars are smuggled into the USA and sold at high prices, counterfeiting is rife; it has been said that 95% of Cuban cigars sold in the USA are counterfeit .
noLabel	Concerns have been expressed that wind turbines at Smøla in Norway are having a deleterious effect on the population of White-tailed Eagles, Europe's largest bird of prey.	They have been the subject of an extensive re-introduction programme in Scotland, which could be jeopardised by the expansion of wind turbines . 
noLabel	Similarly, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong of Malaysia is considered a monarch despite only holding the office for five years at a time.	On the other hand, several life-time dictators around the world have not been formally classified as monarchs, even if succeeded by their children, but that may be more to do with international political sensitivities than with semantics.
noLabel	The term "random," has sometimes been used to describe Olympic style drug testing, although, as stated above, USADA uses a number of factors to intelligently and strategically plan when and where they test athletes.	the term "random" refers to the fact that, to a tested athlete, there are no factors, compromises, stipulations, cut-off dates, or off-seasons restricting when and where an athlete may be tested, thus creating a more random experience in which an athlete is less likely to predict when they will or won't be tested . 
noLabel	Other critics claim that there is a difference between artificial and extraordinary means of preservation, such as medical treatment, kidney dialysis, and blood transfusions, and normal and natural means of preservation, such as gestation, childbirth, and breastfeeding.	They argue that if a baby was born into an environment in which there was no replacement available for her mother's breast milk, and the baby would either breastfeed or starve, the mother would have to allow the baby to breastfeed.
noLabel	Tobacco consumption by Maori remains disproportionately high despite having decreased over recent years thanks to television, internet, radio and print media anti-smoking advertising aimed at Maori.	The high rate of Maori tobacco consumption has been described by many Maori health advocates and academics as a "cultural genocide" .
noLabel	The United States adopted a non-interventionist foreign policy from 1932 to 1938, but then President Franklin D. Roosevelt moved toward strong support of the Allies in their wars against Germany and Japan.	As a result of intense internal debate, the national policy was one of becoming the Arsenal of Democracy, that is financing and equipping the Allied armies without sending American combat soldiers.
noLabel	Burma's government spends the least percentage of its GDP on health care of any country in the world, and international donor organisations give less to Burma, per capita, than any other country except India .	According to the report named "Preventable Fate", published by Doctors without Borders, 25,000 Burmese AIDS patients died in 2007, deaths that could largely have been prevented by Anti Retroviral Therapy drugs and proper treatment .
noLabel	Since the constitution requires no prior experience in diplomacy, government, or military service, it is possible to elect presidents with scant foreign policy experience.	Clearly the record of past presidents confirms this, and that presidents who have had extensive diplomatic, military, and foreign policy experience have been the exception, not the rule.
noLabel	As the frontal lobe of the brain, which houses complex thinking, understanding cause and effect, controlling impulses, and judgment, is not fully developed until a person is in their 20s, "teens are less prepared to think about 'if I do this today, what will happen to me tomorrow?	'" In one study, among those who had had both oral and vaginal sex, 60% reported at least one negative effect, such as feeling used, getting pregnant, contracting a sexually transmitted infection, or feeling bad about themselves . 
noLabel	He reports that even today, Muslim zealots demand that the Three Little Pigs, Miss Piggy, Piglet from Winnie-the-Pooh and other traditional pets and characters be "removed from the innocent gaze of their children.	" Hitchens proposes that the prohibition against pork found in Semitic religions may be based in the proscription of human sacrifice, extended to pigs because of the similarities in appearance and flavor between pork and human flesh .
noLabel	Economic aspects of poverty focus on material needs, typically including the necessities of daily living, such as food, clothing, shelter, or safe drinking water.	Poverty in this sense may be understood as a condition in which a person or community is lacking in the basic needs for a minimum standard of well-being and life, particularly as a result of a persistent lack of income. 
noLabel	In Being for the Other, he writes that there is no "universal moral law," only the sense of responsibility (goodness, mercy, charity) that the Other, in a state of vulnerability, calls forth.	The proximity of the Other is an important part of Levinas's concept: the face of the Other is what compels the response. 
noLabel	Altruism: The argument for altruism is limited as an explanation because though some exists, the programmers do not focus their kindness on more charitable causes.	If the generosity of working for free was a viable motivation for such a prevalent movement, it is curious why such a trend has not been seen in industries such as biotechnology that would have a much bigger impact on the public good . 
noLabel	Critics note that the current bowl system allows for nearly half of the teams to travel and play in bowl games, while proposed playoff formats that include home games for higher seeded teams do not provide these players the bowl game rewards, which often include favorable hotel accommodations, gift bags, and travel to warm destinations .	Additionally, under the BCS, fans who travel to bowl games are able to participate in parades and beach bases, which presumably would not be offered to teams losing in the playoffs .
noLabel	MediaWatch, a Canadian non-profit women's organization, works to educate consumers about how they can register their concerns with advertisers and regulators .	The Canadian ‘Media Awareness Network/Réseau éducation médias’ offers one of the world’s most comprehensive collections of media education and Internet literacy resources.
noLabel	The public sector jobs are divided into 4 categories:Class I (or Group A), Class II (or Group B), Class III (or Group C) and Class IV (or Group D).	The Class I employees take up 2.2% of the public sector workforce, the Class II employees take up 3.3% of the public sector workforce,the Class III employees take up 66.8% of the public sector workforce, and the Class IV employees take up 27.2% of the public sector workforce .
noLabel	On average, when entering kindergarten, African-American students are one year behind Caucasian students in terms of vocabulary and basic math skills, and this gap continues to grow as a child's education continues .	A major reason for this is that children in poor families are typically exposed to fewer education-related activities when they are young.
noLabel	In 2002, the Monash University shooting led the federal government to urge state governments to again review handgun laws, and, as a result, amended legislation was adopted in all states and territories.	Changes included a 10-round magazine capacity limit, a calibre limit of not more than .38&nbsp;inches (9.65&nbsp;mm), a barrel length limit of not less than 120&nbsp;mm (4.72&nbsp;inches) for semi-automatic pistols and 100&nbsp;mm (3.94&nbsp;inches) for revolvers, and even stricter probation and attendance requirements for sporting target shooters.
noLabel	A number of ecological economists claim that industrial civilization has already "overshot" the carrying capacity of the Earth, and "smart growth" is mostly an illusion.	Instead, a steady state economy would be needed to bring human societies back into a necessary balance with the ability of the ecosystem to sustain humans (and other species) . 
noLabel	In July 2001 a dispute between parents in Kansas over circumcision was resolved when the mother's request to have the infant circumcised was withdrawn.	In this case the father opposed circumcision while the mother asserted that not circumcising the child was against her religious beliefs.
noLabel	Although limited and highly controlled sales as disease preventatives were still allowed, there was a brisk black market trade in condoms as birth control .	In Germany, laws passed in 1933 mandated that condoms could only be sold in plain brown wrappers, and only at pharmacies.
noLabel	The missiles had ranges from 300 km to up to 2,000&nbsp;km..Iranian experts have made some changes to Shahab-3 missiles installing cluster warheads in them with the capacity to carry 1,400 bombs."	These launches come after some United States-led military exercises in the Persian Gulf on 30 October 2006, meant to train for blocking the transport of weapons of mass destruction . 
noLabel	In addition, the British government has involved the private sector more in the workings of the National Health Service principally through outsourcing the construction and operation of new hospitals to private companies.	There are also moves to refer patients to private surgeries to ease the load on existing NHS human resources, and covering the cost of this. 
noLabel	The Naha court scheduled Brown's trial to begin on March 13, but later changed the date to May 26 because of delays incurred by legal motions filed by Brown's attorneys.	The trial was expected to last for some time because, under the procedures of the Japanese justice system, trial hearings are usually only conducted for one or two days a month .
noLabel	In recent decades, a handful of Swedish writers have established themselves internationally, including the detective novelist Henning Mankell and the writer of spy fiction Jan Guillou.	The Swedish writer to have made the most lasting impression on world literature is the children's book writer Astrid Lindgren, and her books about Pippi Longstocking, Emil, and others.
noLabel	Economic growth has the indirect potential to alleviate poverty, as a result of a simultaneous increase in employment opportunities and increase labour productivity .	A study by researchers at the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) of 24 countries that experienced growth found that in 18 cases, poverty was alleviated .
noLabel	Because of the sovereign's place in the enactment of laws, the enacting clause of acts of parliament may mention him or her, as well as the other one or two bodies of parliament.	For example, modern Canadian acts of parliament typically contain the following enacting clause: NOW, THEREFORE, Her Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and House of Commons of Canada, enacts as follows..
noLabel	But it has been available in Europe since 1987 and has concerned Olympic officials since the 1988 Winter Games in Calgary, Alberta.	Evidence of use of EPO as a performance-enhancing drug has been most visible and ominous in cycling, where approximately two dozen deaths have been linked anecdotally to the drug since the late 1980's.
noLabel	Currently, environmental groups and some governments are concerned with the extinction of species caused by humanity, and are attempting to combat further extinctions through a variety of conservation programs .	Humans can cause extinction of a species through overharvesting, pollution, habitat destruction, introduction of new predators and food competitors, overhunting, and other influences.
noLabel	Some blame suburbs for what they see as a homogeneity of society and culture, leading to sprawling suburban developments of people with similar race, background and socioeconomic status .	They claim that segregated and stratified development was institutionalized in the early 1950s and 1960s with the financial industries' then-legal process of redlining neighborhoods to prevent certain people from entering and residing in affluent districts.
noLabel	The "duty of responsible parenthood" was affirmed, but the determination of licit and illicit forms of regulating birth was reserved to Pope Paul VI.	After the close of the council a fifth and final meeting of the commission was held, again enlarged to include sixteen bishops as an executive committee, in Rome in the spring of 1966.
noLabel	The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination prohibits discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin in relation to a number of economic, social and cultural rights.	The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities also prohibits all discrimination on the basis of the disability including refusal of the reasonable accommodation relating to full enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights.
noLabel	Schools are expected to provide 30 to 40 hours of sex education, and pass out condoms to students in grades eight and nine.	In January, 2000, the French government launched an information campaign on contraception with TV and radio spots and the distribution of five million leaflets on contraception to high school students . 
noLabel	The methods of science should then be used to answer any empirical question about the natural world, and theology should be used to answer questions about ultimate meaning and moral value.	In this view, the perceived lack of any empirical footprint from the magisterium of the supernatural onto natural events makes science the sole player in the natural world . 
noLabel	A legal analysis published by the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung said that Israeli soldiers had the right to defend themselves, but if Israel used force against the ships without legal justification, the crew members had the right to defend themselves .	Said Mahmoudi, an international law professor, said that boarding a ship on international waters, killing and capturing civilians is not in line with the law . 
noLabel	Scuola secondaria di I grado (first grade secondary school, previously scuola media, middle school, by which it is still called): it is mandatory and lasts 3 years and is the first stage in which different specialized professors teach different subjects.	It has a common programme for all pupils, and covers all the classical subjects (Italian language and literature, History, Geography, Mathematics, Natural sciences, English language, a second Foreign Language - usually French, German or Spanish, Technology, Arts, Music, and Physical Education). 
noLabel	Larger, successful projects do define and enforce at least some rules as they need them to make the teamwork possible .	In the most complex projects these rules may be as strict as reviewing even minor change by two independent developers . 
noLabel	Election of leaders at the local level and, in turn, for wider leadership on the global level, would to a communist undoubtedly make fully participatory elections absolutely necessary.	However, the difference under such circumstances as compared to capitalism would be that communist elections would reject the representative democracy model as a residual of capitalism; that model, in the view of communists, would make it more likely for the new society to revert back to profit and the market if fully participatory democracy were not pursued. 
noLabel	The widows of three civilian crew members sought accident reports on the crash but were told that to release such details would threaten national security by revealing the bomber's top-secret mission .	The court held that only the government can claim or waive the privilege, and it “is not to be lightly invoked”, and last there “must be a formal claim of privilege, lodged by the head of the 
noLabel	It is customary for the brit to be held in a synagogue, but it can also be held at home or any other suitable location.	The brit is performed on the eighth day from the baby's birth, taking into consideration that according to the Jewish calendar, the day begins at the sunset of the day before.
noLabel	Winter sports only play a minor role British sporting life because the winters are not cold enough for them to be practised out of doors very much.	Great Britain is not a leading nation at the Winter Olympics, but has had a few successes in sports such as figure skating, curling and bob skeleton.
noLabel	In addition, the corner is responsible for stopping the fight if they feel their fighter is in grave danger of permanent injury.	The corner will occasionally throw in a white towel to signify a boxer's surrender (the idiomatic phrase "to throw in the towel", meaning to give up, derives from this practice) .
noLabel	In 1997, specialists in this matter promoted the use of condoms as the most accessible safe sex method (besides abstinence) and they called for TV commercials featuring condoms.	During the same year, the Catholic Church in the United States issued their own "safer sex" guidelines on which condoms were listed, though two years later the Vatican urged chastity and heterosexual marriage, attacking the American Catholic bishops' guidelines. 
noLabel	Record books may one day even include asterisks for steroid-era feats, and future sluggers could find themselves chasing two distinct sets of numbers: the Ruth-Maris and the McGwire-Bonds standards, with the latter considered as unreachable as some of the track and field marks set by doped athletes in the 1980's and early 90's.	With much less fanfare, Major League Baseball for the first time also mandated testing and penalties for the use of amphetamines.
noLabel	Other countries with significant installed capacity include the Philippines (1.9 GW), Indonesia (1.2 GW), Mexico (1.0 GW), Italy (0.8 GW), Iceland (0.6 GW), Japan (0.5 GW), and New Zealand (0.5 GW) .	In some countries, geothermal power accounts for a significant share of the total electricity supply, such as in the Philippines, where geothermal represented 17 percent of the total power mix at the end of 2008 . 
noLabel	Symbolic speech is a legal term in United States law used to describe actions that purposefully and discernibly convey a particular message or statement to those viewing it .	Symbolic speech is recognized as being protected under the First Amendment as a form of speech, but this is not expressly written as such in the document.
noLabel	Tied closely to the concept of organizing not as a craft, or even as a group of workers with industrial ties, but rather, as a class, is the idea that all of the business world and government, and even the preponderance of the powerful industrial governments of the world, tend to unite to preserve the status quo of the economic system.	This encompasses not only the various political systems and the vital question of property rights, but also the relationships between working people and their employers. 
noLabel	More recently, two measures have been introduced, and one has been proposed, to prohibit discrimination in employment based on atypical work patterns, for employees who are not considered permanent.	The Part-time Workers Regulations and the Fixed-term Employee Regulations were partly introduced to remedy the pay gap between men and women.
noLabel	The title of kvatter or kvatterin (female) among Ashkenazi Jews is for the person who carries the baby from the mother to the father, who in turn carries him to the mohel.	This honor is usually given to a couple without children, as a merit or segula (efficacious remedy) that they should have children of their own.
noLabel	The United Kingdom's nuclear weapons had their genesis in the Second World War when two recently exiled atomic scientists, Otto Frisch and Rudolf Peierls wrote a memorandum on the construction of "a radioactive super-bomb".	Forwarded to the Ministry of Aircraft Production (MAP), the secret MAUD Committee to evaluate the possibilities was soon set up .
noLabel	The fireball was approximately 3.25 miles (5.2&nbsp;km) wide, and the mushroom cloud rose to an altitude of 57,000 feet (17.0&nbsp;km) in less than 90 seconds.	One minute later it had reached 108,000 feet (33.0&nbsp;km), before stabilizing at 136,000 feet (25 miles or 37.0&nbsp;km) with the top eventually spreading out to a diameter of 100 miles (161&nbsp;km) with a stem 20 miles (32&nbsp;km) wide. 
noLabel	The commander of the unit gave his men the choice of opting out of direct participation if they found it too unpleasant (for example, by being part of a passive cordon round the area of the killing).	The majority chose not to exercise that option— fewer than 15 men out of a battalion of 500 did so .
noLabel	Compromising (sometimes "useful vote") is a type of tactical voting in which a voter insincerely ranks an alternative higher in the hope of getting it elected.	For example, in the first-past-the-post election, voters may vote for an option they perceive as having a greater chance of winning over an option they prefer (e.g., a conservative voter voting for a uncontroversial moderate candidate over an controversial right-wing candidate in order to help defeat a popular leftist candidate.)
noLabel	Social attitudes to sex and marriage in the West moved away from traditional Catholic teachings and Western governments also liberalized laws relating to abortion.	In the face of the HIV AIDS epidemic that emerged in the 1980s, the Church maintained its traditional stance that pre-marital abstinence, rather than contraception was the best preventative action.
noLabel	Careful interpretation of results is important, since passive exposure to cigarette smoke can result in significant accumulation of nicotine, followed by the appearance of its metabolites in various body fluids .	Nicotine use is not regulated in competitive sports programs, yet the drug has been shown to have a significant beneficial effect on athletic endurance in subjects who have not used nicotine before .
noLabel	In its decision in the Patriation Reference (1981), the Supreme Court of Canada had ruled there was a tradition that some provincial approval should be sought for constitutional reform.	As the provinces still had doubts about the Charter's merits, Trudeau was forced to accept the notwithstanding clause to allow governments to opt out of certain obligations.
noLabel	In Precarious Life, Judith Butler discusses recognizing the Other in order to sustain the Self and the problems of not being able to identify the Other.	Butler notes 'that identification always relies upon a difference that it seeks to overcome, and that its aim is accomplished only by reintroducing the difference it claims to have vanquished.
noLabel	Due to its particularly severe violations of religious freedom, the United States has designated Burma a Country of Particular Concern (CPC) under the International Religious Freedom Act.	Burma is also designated a Tier 3 Country in the Trafficking in Persons Report for its use of forced labour, and is subject to additional sanctions as a result.
noLabel	On May 3, Attorney General Holder testified to the House Judiciary Committee that he did not know who approved Fast and Furious, but that it was being investigated.	He also stated that he "probably heard about Fast and Furious for the first time over the last few weeks," a claim which would later become controversial . 
noLabel	Governments everywhere provide consumption subsidies in a number of ways: by actually giving away a good or service, providing use of government assets, property, or services at lower than the cost of provision, or by providing economic incentives (cash subsidies) to purchase or use such goods.	In most countries, consumption of education, health care, and infrastructure (such as roads) are heavily subsidized, and in many cases provided free of charge.
noLabel	Public interest groups suggest that “access to the mental space targeted by advertisers should be taxed, in that at the present moment that space is being freely taken advantage of by advertisers with no compensation paid to the members of the public who are thus being intruded upon.	This kind of tax would be a Pigovian tax in that it would act to reduce what is now increasingly seen as a public nuisance.
noLabel	The national Enlightenment differed from its Western European counterpart in that it promoted further Modernization of all aspects of Russian life and was concerned with attacking the institution of serfdom in Russia.	Historians argue that the Russian enlightenment centered on the individual instead of societal enlightenment and encouraged the living of an enlightened life .
noLabel	Individualists are chiefly concerned with protecting individual autonomy against obligations imposed by social institutions (such as the state or religious morality).	For L. Susan Brown "Liberalism and anarchism are two political philosophies that are fundamentally concerned with individual freedom yet differ from one another in very distinct ways.
noLabel	Rhee has served on the advisory boards for the National Council on Teacher Quality, and the National Center for Alternative Certification .	She was a special guest of First Lady Laura Bush at President George W. Bush's 2008 State of the Union address .
noLabel	Saul Friedländer writes that: "Not one social group, not one religious community, not one scholarly institution or professional association in Germany and throughout Europe declared its solidarity with the Jews.	" He writes that some Christian churches declared that converted Jews should be regarded as part of the flock, but even then only up to a point. 
noLabel	Currently, the standard is that alcohol advertisements can only be placed in media where 70% of the audience is over the legal drinking age.	Alcohol advertising's creative messages should not be designed to appeal to people under the age of 21, for example, using cartoon characters as spokespeople is discouraged.
noLabel	The Open Source Initiative, or OSI, created in 1998, essentially came up with the term "open source" to change the perception of existing free software.	“OSI was formed as an educational, advocacy, and stewardship organization at a cusp moment in the history of that culture.”  How the term "open source" is understood today is in part due to the creation of OSI. 
noLabel	The Northern Ireland Executive Minister for Culture, Arts & Leisure is currently Carál Ní Chuilín, however virtually every team sport is organised on either an all Ireland or UK wide basis, with football and netball being the only exceptions.	As such responsibility for most sports lies with either the UK minister or the Irish minister for Transport, Tourism & Sport. 
noLabel	The most recent update to gun law in Finland occurred in November 2007 when the government pre-empted a new EU directive prohibiting the carrying of firearms by under-18's by removing the ability of 15–18-year-olds to carry hunting rifles under parental guidance.	In 2010, after controversial high school shootings in 2008 prompted government review, a constitutional law committee concluded that people over the age of 20 can receive a permit for semiautomatic handguns.
noLabel	The belief of a fundamental natural right to self-defense, low efficacy of police, high levels of use of illegal weapons in crimes in contrast to a very rare usage of legal weapons, and increasing power of criminal organizations (like PCC) are some factors that may have influenced 65% of Brazilian people to decide against the ban.	The gun ban proposal received mixed support in the press, while celebrities were generally in favor, and drew the attention of international NGOs such as the NRA and the IANSA .
noLabel	"Politicians.. will produce rhetoric about quotas, family unification and special skills togther with undertakings to maintain a strict line on enforcement.	They will have little or no chance of succeeding because, like their predecessors, they will neglect to provide adequate control machinery for their policies..The most revolutionary change, already well under way, will see the transfer of activity from airport arrivals to airline check-in desks at departure points..these pre-entry controls need to be supplemented by equally radical changes in after entry enforcement.
noLabel	Slovakia criminalized denial of fascist crimes in general in late 2001; in May 2005, the term "Holocaust" was explicitly adopted by the penal code and in 2009, it became illegal to deny any act regarded by an international criminal court as genocide.	The Parliament of Hungary adopted the most recent legislation, which declared denial or trivialization of the Holocaust a crime punishable by up to three years imprisonment, in February 2010 . 
noLabel	For most of the history of Hinduism, premarital virginity on the part of the bride was ideal- as it is today .	The prevailing Hindu marriage ceremony or the Vedic wedding, centers around the Kanyadan ritual, which literally means gift of a virgin, by father of the maiden through which the Hindus believe they gain greatest spiritual merit, and marriages of the daughters are considered a spiritual obligation . 
noLabel	In individual participant sports, such as automobile racing, a racer with no hope of obtaining a championship title could prevent a racer with a chance at the title by defeating them, preventing the contending racer from earning critical points toward winning the title.	Instead, the title would go to the contender directly behind him in the rankings, provided that second-tier racer is close enough to surpass and they win their own competition.
noLabel	In January 2007, Prime Minister Stephen Harper advised the creation of a new sub-ministerial cabinet portfolio with the title Canadian Identity for the first time in Canadian history, naming Jason Kenney to the position of Secretary of State for Multiculturalism and Canadian Identity.	The move prompted speculation that Harper wants Canada to move in the direction of Australia, France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom in the area of national identity policy.
noLabel	In Sri Lanka there have been debates regarding a bill on religious freedom that seeks to protect indigenous religious traditions from certain kinds of missionary activities.	Debates have also occurred in various states of India regarding similar laws, particularly those that restrict conversions using force, fraud or allurement. 
noLabel	At the end of the Cold War the U.S. Fail Safe Commission recommended installing devices to prevent rogue commanders persuading their crews to launch unauthorised nuclear attacks.	This was endorsed by the Nuclear Posture Review and Trident Coded Control Devices were fitted to all U.S. SSBNs by 1997.
noLabel	In the middle of the 20th century, the government subsidized white homeownership through the Federal Housing Administration, but not homeownership of other minorities .	Some social scientists also suggest that the historical processes of suburbanization and decentralization are instances of white privilege that have contributed to contemporary patterns of environmental racism . 
noLabel	In that setting, he says, providers almost always charged minimal fees for services in order to improve the chance of being paid.	He argues that the emergence of government as a payer for healthcare services in the form of Medicare and Medicaid, along with government policies of the 1970s that led to the expansion of private insurance to cover routine medical services in addition to hospitalization and emergency care, and which required most employers to provide health insurance for their employees, interfered with the traditional physician-patient relationship.
noLabel	Assessing the relative importance of genetic factors compared to environmental ones as the causes of extinction has been compared to the nature-nurture debate .	The question of whether more extinctions in the fossil record have been caused by evolution or by catastrophe is a subject of discussion; Mark Newman, the author of Modeling Extinction argues for a mathematical model that falls between the two positions .
noLabel	The removal of forest to make way for cattle ranching was the leading cause of deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon from the mid 1960s.	In addition to Vargas's earlier aim for commercial development in the country, the devaluation of the Brazilian real against the dollar had the result of doubling the price of beef in reals and gave ranchers a widespread incentive to increase the size of their cattle ranches and areas under pasture for mass beef production, resulting in large areas of forest removal.
noLabel	The Australian Labor Party first made republicanism its official policy in 1991, with then Prime Minister Bob Hawke describing a republic as inevitable.	His successor Paul Keating pursued the republican agenda much more actively than Hawke had done, and he established the Republic Advisory Committee to produce an options paper on issues relating to the possible transition to a republic to take effect on the centenary of federation: 1 January 2001.
noLabel	Green economics incorporates ideas from feminist economics and Greens list feminism as an explicit goal of their political measures, often seeking higher valuations for such work.	Feminist economics is also often linked with welfare economics or labour economics, since it emphasizes child welfare, and the value of labour in itself, as opposed to production for a marketplace, the focus of classical economy.
noLabel	Brazil has one of the largest renewable energy programs in the world, involving production of ethanol fuel from sugar cane, and ethanol now provides 18 percent of the country's automotive fuel.	As a result of this and the exploitation of domestic deep water oil sources, Brazil, which for years had to import a large share of the petroleum needed for domestic consumption, recently reached complete self-sufficiency in liquid fuels .
noLabel	Cadre corruption in post-1949 China lies in the "organizational involution" of the ruling party, including the Chinese Communist Party's policies, institutions, norms, and failure to adapt to a changing environment in the post-Mao era caused by the market liberalization reforms initiated by Deng Xiaoping.	Like other socialist economies that have gone through monumental transition, such as post-Soviet Eastern Europe and Central Asia, post-Mao China has experienced unprecedented levels of corruption, making corruption one of the major hindrances to the PRC's social and economic development. 
noLabel	Polytheism is not atheism, for it does not deny that there is a Deity; but it is anti-theistic, since it denies that there is only one.	Pantheism is not atheism, for it admits that there is a God; but it is anti-theism, for it denies that God is a being distinct from creation and possessed of such attributes as wisdom, and holiness, and love.
noLabel	Adultery was broken up into various categories by the Statutes of Angers: prostitution and simple fornication, adultery, defloration of virgins, intercourse with nuns, incest, homosexuality, and incidental matters relating to sex such as looks, desires, touches, embraces, and kisses .	Adultery was typically grounds for divorce for a man if his wife fornicated with another, but adultery was not seen as a crime, just as a sin .
noLabel	In addition to helping students realize their full potential, Dewey goes on to acknowledge that education and schooling are instrumental in creating social change and reform.	He notes that "education is a regulation of the process of coming to share in the social consciousness; and that the adjustment of individual activity on the basis of this social consciousness is the only sure method of social reconstruction" (1897, p.&nbsp;16). 
noLabel	For example, while the First Amendment guarantees freedom of speech to the general populace, the English Bill of Rights protected only "Freedome of Speech and Debates or Proceedings in Parlyament.	" The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, a French revolutionary document passed just weeks before Congress proposed the Bill of Rights, contains certain guarantees that are similar to those in the First Amendment.
noLabel	Needs-based assistance programs are mostly means-tested benefits which may either be a periodic or an occasional transfer, and may either be flat or can vary depending on the beneficiary’s resources and size.	They can be found in areas as different as Eastern Europe, Mozambique and Zambia in Sub-Saharan Africa, and in Pakistan in South Asia . 
noLabel	Families and society who submit low levels of investment in the education and development of less fortunate children end up with less favorable results for the children who see a life of parental employment reduction and low wages.	Higher rates of early childbearing with all the connected risks to family, health and well-being are majorly important issues to address since education from preschool to high school are both identifiably meaningful in a life . 
noLabel	Since 1975 the UN has held a series of world conferences on women's issues, starting with the World Conference of the International Women's Year in Mexico City.	These conferences created an international forum for women's rights, but also illustrated divisions between women of different cultures and the difficulties of attempting to apply principles universally .
noLabel	Although possession of nuclear weapons is not explicitly forbidden in the constitution, Japan, as the only nation to have experienced the devastation of nuclear attacks, expressed early its abhorrence of nuclear arms and its determination never to acquire them.	The Atomic Energy Basic Law of 1956 limits research, development, and utilization of nuclear power to peaceful uses only, and beginning in 1956, national policy has embodied "three non-nuclear principles" — forbidding the nation to possess or manufacture nuclear weapons or to allow them to be introduced into its territories.
noLabel	In a message released 14 November 2006, during a Vatican press conference for the 2007 annual observance of World Day for Migrants and Refugees, the pope urged the ratification of international conventions and policies that defend all migrants, including refugees, exiles, evacuees, and internally displaced persons.	"The church encourages the ratification of the international legal instruments that aim to defend the rights of migrants, refugees and their families," the pope said.
noLabel	Tobacco is often sold flavored, often with various fruit aromas, something which is especially popular for use with water pipes, such as hookahs.	The second most common substance that is smoked is cannabis, made from the flowers or leaves of Cannabis sativa or Cannabis indica.
noLabel	Economist Paul Krugman described moral hazard as "any situation in which one person makes the decision about how much risk to take, while someone else bears the cost if things go badly.	" Financial bailouts of lending institutions by governments, central banks or other institutions can encourage risky lending in the future if those that take the risks come to believe that they will not have to carry the full burden of potential losses.
noLabel	Interpretivism or Symbolic Interaction; also known as Interactionism, is a sociological theory that places emphasis on micro-scale social interaction to provide subjective meaning in human behavior, the social process and pragmatism .	The approach focuses on creating a framework for building a theory that sees society as the product of the everyday interactions of individuals.
noLabel	The commission did not have exact figures for a sub-caste, known as the Other Backward Class(OBC), and used the 1930 census data, further classifying 1,257 communities as backward, to estimate the OBC population at 52% .	In 1980 the commission submitted a report, and recommended changes to the existing quotas, increasing them from 22% to 49.5% .
noLabel	Hence, at best, the threat of punishment has a not statistically insignificant effect on reported crime and the empirical evidence in support of deterrence is very limited.	Raymond Paternoster's work (see bibliography ) demonstrates that the only statistically significant data emerges from experiential studies among those who have been through the criminal justice system (i.e.
noLabel	The South, which had started to vote increasingly Republican beginning in the 1930s, continued that trend, becoming the stronghold of the Republican party by the 1990s .	Political scientists Richard Johnston and Byron Schafer have argued that this development was based more on economics than on race . 
noLabel	Writing about her own reasons for leaving teaching, a contributing editor to the newspaper's Guardian Teacher Network described the realisation of needing to leave the profession as having slowly crept up on her.	Being a mature entrant, she questioned things in her aspiration to improve education and was reluctant to "be moulded into a standard shape" .
noLabel	Although the "Green Revolution" significantly increased rice yields in Asia, yield increases have not occurred in the past 15–20 years .	The genetic "yield potential" has increased for wheat, but the yield potential for rice has not increased since 1966, and the yield potential for maize has "barely increased in 35 years" .
noLabel	In their search for an early identity, English Canadians relied heavily on loyalty and attachment to the British Empire, a triumphalist attitude towards British role in the building of Canada, as evidenced in the lyrics of the informal anthem The Maple Leaf Forever and distrust or dislike of those who were not British or Protestant.	John Ralston Saul sees in the influence of the Orange Order the counterpart of the Ultramontane movement among French Canadians, leading certain groups of English Canadian Protestants to provoke persecution of the Métis and suppress or resist francophone rights .
noLabel	In a wind farm, individual turbines are interconnected with a medium voltage (usually 34.5 kV) power collection system and communications network.	At a substation, this medium-voltage electrical current is increased in voltage with a transformer for connection to the high voltage electric power transmission system. 
noLabel	Internet content is not specifically regulated in Canada, however local laws do apply to websites hosted in Canada as well as to residents who host sites on servers in other jurisdictions.	A well-known example is the case of Ernst Zündel, who was investigated by the Canadian Human Rights Commission for promoting ethnic hatred via his website. 
noLabel	This chain of compression could then be continued with an arbitrary number of secondaries, and would end with the fissioning of the natural uranium tamper, something which could not normally be achieved without the neutron flux provided by the fusion reactions in the secondary.	Such a design can be scaled up to an arbitrary strength, potentially to the level of a "doomsday device", but usually such weapons are not more than a dozen megatons, which is generally considered enough to destroy even the largest practical targets.
noLabel	|- "The Kingdom of Morocco strongly condemns the massive Israeli military operations which have claimed, this morning, the lives of dozens of Palestinian brothers in Gaza strip, and strongly condemns the disproportionate use of force and the tragic escalation of violence", a communiqué of the Foreign ministry said on Saturday.	"The Kingdom of Morocco calls for the immediate halt of the hostilities which, beyond the significant loss of life, exposes the region once again to escalation, violence and divisions", the document added .
noLabel	For patients suffering from anemia caused by kidney disease, use of the synthetic hormone erythropoietin, or EPO, can be a lifesaver because it stimulates the production of red blood cells.	For endurance athletes, the increased oxygen-carrying capacity provided by EPO has made it an alluring, performance-enhancing drug, albeit one that is banned and that can leave athletes at risk of strokes, heart attacks and even death.
noLabel	Third, diplomatic misunderstandings and/or opposing political ideologies may lead to escalating mutual perceptions of threat, and a subsequent arms race which elevates the risk of actual war - a scenario illustrated in the movies WarGames and Dr. Strangelove.	An arms race is inefficient in its optimal output, as all countries involved expend resources on armaments that would not have been created if the others had not expended resources.
noLabel	The difference between Special and Express is that the former takes higher Mother Tongue, which can be used as a first language in exams instead of the subject "mother tongue" that Express students take.	However if some Express students can cope with higher Mother Tongue, they are allowed to used it as a first language in exams too. 
noLabel	Use of tactical nuclear weapons against similarly-armed opponents carries a significant danger of quickly escalating the conflict beyond anticipated boundaries, from the tactical to the strategic .	Ironically, the smallest tactical nuclear warheads with the lowest-yields are the most dangerous in this respect because they greatly reduce the threshold for starting nuclear warfare i.e.
noLabel	According to the International Energy Agency, new bioenergy (biofuel) technologies being developed today, notably cellulosic ethanol biorefineries, could allow biofuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought .	Cellulosic ethanol can be made from plant matter composed primarily of inedible cellulose fibers that form the stems and branches of most plants.
noLabel	This discourse, which first appeared in Great Britain, was then carried on in France by people such as Boulainvilliers, Nicolas Fréret, and then, during the 1789 French Revolution, Sieyès, and afterward Augustin Thierry and Cournot.	Boulainvilliers, which created the matrix of such racist discourse in medieval France, conceived the "race" as something closer to the sense of "nation", that is, in his times, the "people". 
noLabel	For example, in the United States, most whistleblower protection laws provide for limited "make whole" remedies or damages for employment losses if whistleblower retaliation is proven.	However, many whistleblowers report there exists a widespread "shoot the messenger" mentality by corporations or government agencies accused of misconduct and in some cases whistleblowers have been subjected to criminal prosecution in reprisal for reporting wrongdoing. 
noLabel	Sometimes there are lobbying efforts to slow or derail other legislative processes; for example, when the FDA began considering a cheaper generic version of the costly anti-clotting drug Lovenox, the French pharmaceutical firm Sanofi "sprang into action to try and slow the process.	" Lobbyists are often assembled in anticipation of a potential takeover bid, particularly when there are large high-profile companies, or a large foreign company involved, and substantial concern that the takeover may be blocked by regulatory authorities . 
noLabel	Austria: A May 2007 OGM survey examined Austrian opinion on the morality of abortion, asking, "Personally, do you think of abortion as a moral issue?"	20% of those polled replied, "yes, always", 59% replied "yes, under certain circumstances", 19% replied "no, never", and 2% replied that they were "not sure" .
noLabel	These developments tend to be low-density; the buildings are single-storey and there is ample space for parking and access for delivery vehicles.	This character is reflected in the spacious landscaping of the parking lots and walkways and clear signage of the retail establishments.
noLabel	After living in the US in order to avoid arrest in Canada, Mackenzie eventually became dissatisfied with the American republican system and gave up plans for revolution in the British North American provinces, though he theorized, near the end of his life, on Canadian annexation into the United States, should enough people in the former country become disillusioned with responsible government.	 Similarly, by 1849, Papineau was advocating the absorption of the Province of Canada (formed in 1840) into the American republic to the south.
noLabel	Proponents of PE, however, believe that it is a crucial element of all-round schooling and our society’s well-being, particularly with the contemporary rise in levels of obesity in the developed world and the proliferation of high-fat, sugary food and drink.	They insist PE in schools remains one of the few places whereby the youth can be forced to participate in aerobic exercise.
noLabel	A poll conducted by Angus Reid in March 2008 also reported that the majority of Canadians believe "it is time to end the country's official relationship with either the British monarchy or the monarchy".	The majority 55% of Canadians favour ending formal ties - the plurality 34% of Canadians "strongly" so, and the second largest group of respondents, 21%, "moderately" so - while 34% disagreed .
noLabel	"The helots were invited by a proclamation to pick out those of their number who claimed to have most distinguished themselves against the enemy, in order that they might receive their freedom; the object being to test them, as it was thought that the first to claim their freedom would be the most high spirited and the most apt to rebel.	As many as two thousand were selected accordingly, who crowned themselves and went round the temples, rejoicing in their new freedom.
noLabel	Some sources prefer the term safer sex to more precisely reflect the fact that these practices reduce, but do not completely eliminate, the risk of disease transmission .	In recent years, the term "sexually transmitted infections" (STIs) has been preferred over "STDs", as it has a broader range of meaning; a person may be infected, and may potentially infect others, without showing signs of disease. 
noLabel	The two fighters never met, due to a dispute over whether the fight would be held in the U.S. or in Germany.	This sort of dispute would be repeated among other top fighters, as Germany emerged as a top venue for world class boxing. 
noLabel	Obama has also stated that he will work to reintroduce the expired Federal Assault Weapons Ban and to make it permanent .	In Illinois, he backed changes to state law that included a ban on assault weapons sales and limiting handgun sales to one a month.
noLabel	Common classes include fighters, spellcasters, thieves with stealth abilities, and clerics with healing abilities, or a mixed class, such as a fighter who can cast simple spells.	Characters will also have a range of physical attributes such as dexterity and strength, which affect a player's performance in combat.
noLabel	On February 4, the Danish and Norwegian embassies in Damascus, Syria were set on fire, after being stormed by an angry mob.	Within the building housing the Danish embassy were the Chilean and Swedish embassies, both having no formal connection to the present row .
noLabel	In England, further education is often seen as forming one part of a wider learning and skills sector, alongside workplace education, prison education, and other types of non-school, non-university education and training.	Since June 2009, the sector is overseen by the new Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, although some parts (such as education and training for 14-19 year olds) fall within the Department for Children, Schools and Families.
noLabel	An advantage of cultivating positive mores as a prevention strategy is that it is effective across all electoral systems and devices.	A disadvantage is that it makes other prevention and detection efforts more difficult to implement because members of society generally have more trust and less of a sense for fraudulent methods.
noLabel	In 1348, Pope Clement VI (1291–1352) issued a bull pleading with Catholics not to murder Jews, whom they blamed for the Black Death.	He noted that Jews died of the plague like anyone else, and that the disease also flourished in areas where there were no Jews.
noLabel	By 1541, King Henry VIII of England had broken with the Church of Rome and declared himself Supreme Head of the Church of England.	The pope's grant of Ireland to the English monarch became invalid, so Henry summoned a meeting of the Irish Parliament to change his title from Lord of Ireland to King of Ireland . 
noLabel	Latter Day Saint church founder Joseph Smith married girls as young as 13 and 14, and other Latter Day Saints married girls as young as 10 .	The The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints eliminated underaged marriages in the 19th century, but several fundamentalist branches of Mormonism continue the practice .
noLabel	If an NPM made the bulk of its sales in a few states, however, it could obtain a refund of those escrow payments in excess of what it would have paid each of those States had it been an SPM.	For example, an NPM which made 50 per cent of its sales in Kansas (which has a relatively low allocable share) would obtain a release from its Kansas escrow fund of more than 49 per cent of its full escrow payment.
noLabel	In his book , a prominent economist named Jeffrey Sachs laid out a plan to eradicate global poverty by the year 2025.	Following his recommendations, international organizations such as the  are working to help eradicate poverty worldwide with intervention in the areas of housing, food, education, basic health, agricultural inputs, safe drinking water, transportation and communications. 
noLabel	Affirmative action is the term used for a system that instead of operating purely on meritocratic grounds, grants preferential status in selection for people of a particular sex, race, ethnicity or other similar qualification.	Affirmative action is used to assist groups who were victims of past discrimination and aims to right past injustices and equalize opportunities and outcomes for these disadvantaged groups.
noLabel	In a 2000 trial, it became clear that the management and health officials of Festina had organized drug-taking within the team.	Richard Virenque, a top Festina rider, finally confessed after being ridiculed for maintaining that if he was doping he was somehow not consciously aware of it - as the satirical television programme, Les Guignols de l'Info, put it: "à l'insu de mon plein gré" ("of my own free will but without my knowing"). 
noLabel	Many illegal immigrants are migrants who originally arrive in a country lawfully but overstay their authorized residence (overstaying a visa) .	For example, most of the estimated 200,000 illegal immigrants in Canada (perhaps as high as 500,000) are refugee claimants whose refugee applications were rejected but who have not yet been expelled from the country . 
noLabel	Since the federal Parliament has no power to criminalise the domestic sale or exhibition of printed matter within the States, the States and Territories, as part of the scheme, pass their own laws criminalising such sale and exhibition.	Although they have delegated their censorship responsibility in general to the Commonwealth, they reserve the legal right in specific cases to either: . 
noLabel	Some think tanks and NGOs have argued that Western monetary aid often only serves to increase poverty and social inequality, either because it is conditioned with the implementation of harmful economic policies in the recipient countries, or because it's tied with the importing of products from the donor country over cheaper alternatives .	Sometimes foreign aid is seen to be serving the interests of the donor more than the recipient, and critics also argue that some of the foreign aid is stolen by corrupt governments and officials, and that higher aid levels erode the quality of governance.
noLabel	In the 1990s every country in the world except for Somalia and the United States became a signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, or CRC.	Somalia eventually signed the convention in 2002; the delay of the signing was believed to been due to Somalia not having a government .
noLabel	Deportation is the lawful expulsion of an undesirable alien, usually following a criminal conviction but also in cases where there are grounds “conducive to the public good”.	Section 5 of the Immigration Act 1971—provides the power for the Secretary of State to make or revoke a deportation order (DO).
noLabel	Affirming students, particularly minority students in urban school districts, whose school performance is affected by social phenomena including stereotype threat, "acting white", non-dominant cultural capital, and a "code of the street" requires the autonomy to create a carefully balanced school culture to meet students' needs in each unique context.	Most teachers, by a 68 percent to 21 percent margin, say schools would be better for students if principals and teachers had more control and flexibility about work rules and school duties . 
noLabel	Delegitimization was a factor addressed by Abba Eban, who claimed that efforts to deny "the equal rights of the Jewish people its lawful sovereignty within the community of nations" constituted anti-Semitism .	Dina Porat (head of the Institute for Study of Anti-semitism and Racism at Tel-Aviv University) also characterizes some anti-Zionist ideals as anti-Semitic, because they amount to singling-out Jews for special treatment, while all other comparable groups of people are entitled to create and maintain a homeland.
noLabel	The pricing of commodities by supply and demand will not account for externalities such as the cost of pollution or the benefit of education.	Governments have often "leveled the playing field" by imposing regulation and taxes that all parties share alike, with the objective that society as a whole may persevere, or to prevent market failure. 
noLabel	Other research in criminology indicates an inverse relationship between religion and crime, with many studies establishing this beneficial connection (though some say it is a modest one) .	Indeed, a meta-analysis of 60 studies on religion and crime concluded, "religious behaviors and beliefs exert a moderate deterrent effect on individuals' criminal behavior" . 
noLabel	To meet the world's demand for wood, it has been suggested by forestry writers Botkins and Sedjo that high-yielding forest plantations are suitable.	It has been calculated that plantations yielding 10 cubic meters per hectare annually could supply all the timber required for international trade on 5% of the world's existing forestland.
noLabel	Her O'Donnell endorsement further increased tensions between Palin and the Republican establishment: leading conservative commentator Charles Krauthammer described the endorsement as "reckless and irresponsible"; party strategist Karl Rove argued that her endorsement may have cost the GOP the Delaware Senate seat; and commentators including Politico's Ben Smith posited that Palin's support of O'Donnell contributed to dashing Republican hopes of regaining control of the U.S. Senate .	Palin's influence over the primaries nonetheless further increased speculation that she would seek to be the party's nominee for President in 2012, with political pundits Paul Mirengoff, David Frum, and Jonathan Chait identifying Palin as the front-runner .
noLabel	Residents near turbines may complain of "shadow flicker" on nearby residences caused by rotating turbine blades, when the sun passes behind the turbine.	This can easily be avoided by locating the wind farm to avoid unacceptable shadow flicker, or by turning the turbine off for the few minutes of the day when the sun is at the angle that causes flicker . 
noLabel	Nevertheless, the Court's opinion did not conclude definitively and categorically, under the existing state of international law at the time, whether in an extreme circumstance of self-defence in which the very survival of a State would be a stake, the threat or use of nuclear weapons would necessarily be unlawful in all possible cases.	However, the court's opinion unanimously clarified that the world's states have a binding duty to negotiate in good faith, and to accomplish, nuclear disarmament.
noLabel	It is argued that the material that black and other minority children are tested on in school is often culturally biased, not taking into consideration dialect and other differences between populations.	Williams and Rivers (1972b) showed that test instructions in Standard English disadvantaged the black child and that if the language of the test is put in familiar labels without training or coaching, the child's performances on the tests increase significantly .
noLabel	Some scientific studies show that the degree of religiosity is generally found to be associated with higher ethical attitudes — for example, surveys suggesting a positive connection between faith and altruism .	Although a recent study by Gregory S. Paul published in the Journal of Religion and Society argues for a positive correlation between the degree of public religiosity in a society and certain measures of dysfunction, an analysis published later in the same journal contends that a number of methodological problems undermine any findings or conclusions to be taken from the research . 
noLabel	The Chinese kinship system () is classified as a Sudanese kinship system (also referred to as the "Descriptive system") used to define family.	Identified by Lewis Henry Morgan in his 1871 work Systems of Consanguinity and Affinity of the Human Family, the Sudanese system is one of the six major kinship systems together with Eskimo, Hawaiian, Iroquois, Crow, and Omaha. 
noLabel	Starting in 1951, the Nevada Test Site (in the Nevada desert) became the primary location for all U.S. nuclear testing (in the USSR, Semipalatinsk Test Site in Kazakhstan served a similar role).	Tests were divided into two primary categories: "weapons related" (verifying that a new weapon worked or looking at exactly how it worked) and "weapons effects" (looking at how weapons behaved under various conditions or how structures behaved when subjected to weapons). 
noLabel	By morning IDF soldiers were still advancing slowly towards the city center and several buildings were in flames in Tel al-Hawa, where most of the fighting took place.	Five Israeli soldiers were wounded during clashes with militants, and an officer was severely wounded by an explosion inside a booby-trapped building .
noLabel	The choice to commit a certain act, or associate with other organised crime groups, may be seen as much more of an entrepreneurial decision - contributing to the continuation of a criminal enterprise, by maximising those aspects that protect or support their own individual gain.	In this context, the role of risk is also easily understandable, however it is debatable whether the underlying motivation should be seen as true entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship as a product of some social disadvantage. 
noLabel	Furthermore, the Euro countries agreed on a plan to cut the debt of Greece from today's 160% to 120% of GDP by 2020.	As part of that plan, it was proposed that all owners of Greek governmental bonds should "voluntarily" accept a 50% haircut of their bonds (resulting in a debt reduction worth €100bn), and moreover accept interest rates being reduced to only 3.5%.
noLabel	One subgenre of the FPS that typically is not characterized as non-violent despite the fact that gameplay revolves to a great degree around avoidance of battle, is that of stealth games.	Although much of the gameplay characteristic to stealth games accords closely with the requirements of the non-violent genre, stealth games most frequently simply delay chaotic violence to focus instead upon controlled precision violence. 
noLabel	In a press release dated January 1, 1993, id Software had written that they expected Doom to be "the number one cause of decreased productivity in businesses around the world".	This prediction came true at least in part: Doom became a major problem at workplaces, both occupying the time of employees and clogging computer networks with traffic caused by deathmatches.
noLabel	Radiation monitoring involves the measurement of radiation dose or radionuclide contamination for reasons related to the assessment or control of exposure to radiation or radioactive substances, and the interpretation of the results.	The methodological and technical details of the design and operation of environmental radiation monitoring programmes and systems for different radionuclides, environmental media and types of facility are given in IAEA Safety Standards Series No.
noLabel	The practice of metzitzah b'peh was implicated in the transfer of herpes from mohelim to eight Israeli infants, one of whom suffered brain damage .	When three New York City infants contracted herpes after metzizah b'peh by one mohel and one of them died, New York authorities took out a restraining order against the mohel requiring use of a sterile glass tube, or pipette .
noLabel	The benefits of this approach include increased clarity and the ability to use mathematics to derive implications of a theory that cannot be arrived at intuitively.	The models typically used in mathematical sociology allow sociologists to understand how predictable local interactions are often able to elicit global patterns of social structure . 
noLabel	The Statute of Anne was the first real copyright act, and gave the publishers rights for a fixed period, after which the copyright expired .	Copyright has grown from a legal concept regulating copying rights in the publishing of books and maps to one with a significant effect on nearly every modern industry, covering such items as sound recordings, films, photographs, software, and architectural works. 
noLabel	In response to negative publicity, president and CEO of TransCanada Russ Girling touted the positive impact of the project by "putting 20,000&nbsp;US workers to work and spending $7&nbsp;billion stimulating the US economy.	" These numbers come from a 2010 report written by The Perryman Group, a financial analysis firm based in Texas that was hired by TransCanada to evaluate Keystone XL .
noLabel	In the 1990s, the opening of government archives in Eastern Europe resulted in the adjustment of the death tolls published in the pioneering work by Hilberg, Dawidowicz and Gilbert (e.g.	compare Gilbert's estimation of 2 million deaths in Auschwitz-Birkenau with the updated figure of 1 million in the Extermination Camp data box).
noLabel	The U.S. produces approximately 18% of the world's manufacturing output, a number that has declined as other nations developed competitive manufacturing industries .	The job loss during this continual volume growth is the result of multiple factors including increased productivity, trade, and secular economic trends .
noLabel	Top leaders in the Byrd Organization, such as Governor Thomas B. Stanley and Attorney General James Lindsay Almond, Jr., were also at first reserved in their reaction to the Brown ruling .	However, this changed when James J. Kilpatrick, editor of The Richmond News Leader in Richmond, Virginia, quickly adopted a defiant and unyielding opposition to racial integration of public schools .
noLabel	One account suggest that groping for "personal dirt" on opponents was counterproductive since it would undermine respect for the lobbyist and their clients .	And, by reverse logic, if an untruth is told by an opponent or opposing lobby, then it makes sense to publicize it .
noLabel	The argument that unionized workers raise their own wages above their natural rate at the expense of their businesses or other workers assumes that unions never raise productivity to compensate for higher wages.	Unions are capable of raising productivity by reducing turnover, by increasing coordination between workers and management, and by increasing workers' motivation .
noLabel	Free speech zones (also known as First Amendment Zones, Free speech cages, and Protest zones) are areas set aside in public places for political activists to exercise their right of free speech in the United States.	The First Amendment to the United States Constitution states that "Congress shall make no law.. abridging.. the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances."
noLabel	Then TKCSA sued Alexandre Pessoa Dias research professor of the Joaquim Venâncio Polytechnic School of Health (EPSJV – Fiocruz) and the biologist Monica Cristina Lima, from Pedro Ernesto University Hospital and board member of the Public University Workers Union of Rio de Janeiro State (Sintuperj).	The last two lawsuits occurred after the disclosure of the technical report “Evaluation of social, environmental and health impacts caused by the setup and operation of TKCSA in Santa Cruz”.
noLabel	The degradation of forest ecosystems has also been traced to economic incentives that make forest conversion appear more profitable than forest conservation .	Many important forest functions have no markets, and hence, no economic value that is readily apparent to the forests' owners or the communities that rely on forests for their well-being .
noLabel	International patent systems: There is an argument for viewing national patent systems as a cloak for protectionist trade policies at a national level.	Two strands of this argument exist: one when patents held by one country form part of a system of exploitable relative advantage in trade negotiations against another, and a second where adhering to a worldwide system of patents confers "good citizenship" status despite 'de facto protectionism'.
noLabel	Sinn Féin have already made clear that part of this response must be the expulsion of the Israeli Ambassador from Ireland.	" The party's Spokesperson for International Affairs Aengus Ó Snodaigh and Gerry Adams also called for the expulsion of the ambassador .
noLabel	Induction generators, often used for wind power projects, require reactive power for excitation so substations used in wind-power collection systems include substantial capacitor banks for power factor correction.	Different types of wind turbine generators behave differently during transmission grid disturbances, so extensive modelling of the dynamic electromechanical characteristics of a new wind farm is required by transmission system operators to ensure predictable stable behaviour during system faults (see: Low voltage ride through).
noLabel	The package insert for Dianabol, a common anabolic steroid used at the time, stated, "Anabolic steroids do not enhance athletic ability.	" Despite these warnings, use of anabolic steroids began in competition bodybuilding, in track and field events, such as the shot put, and in other sports where performance depended on muscle strength or speed of recovery during training . 
noLabel	Roland attributed women’s lack of education to the public view that women were too weak or vain to be involved in the serious business of politics.	She believed that it was this inferior education that turned them into foolish people, but women "could easily be concentrated and solidified upon objects of great significance" if given the chance .
noLabel	: On 24 June 2011 Ismail Haniya, the Hamas Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority, was interviewed as saying "The United Nations and all international law organizations should provide protection to the second flotilla that is preparing to sail to the Gaza Strip.	The world must stop Israel from intercepting the ships, We believe that it is the right of the foreign activists to arrive in the Gaza Strip, and we condemn any Israeli threats against them.
noLabel	On the other hand, some governmental regulations of property use have been deemed so severe that they have been considered "regulatory takings.	" Moreover, conduct sometimes deemed only a nuisance or other tort has been held a taking of property where the conduct was sufficiently persistent and severe .
noLabel	Iranian people (who constitute a different ethnicity than Arabs), as well as South Asians of different ethnic/religious backgrounds (Hindus, Muslims and Sikhs) have been stereotyped as "Arabs".	The case of Balbir Singh Sodhi, a Sikh who was murdered at a Phoenix gas station by a white supremacist for "looking like an Arab terrorist" (because of the turban that is a requirement of Sikhism), as well as that of Hindus being attacked for "being Muslims" have achieved prominence and criticism following the September 11 attacks . 
noLabel	Award-winning Israeli-Arab journalist Khaled Abu Toameh noted that "according to Palestinians living in the Gaza Strip, there is no shortage of basic foods", and that "periodic shortage of medical supplies is often attributed to the ongoing power struggle between Hamas and Fatah, whose representatives in the West Bank are sometimes accused of withholding medicine as a way of punishing the Hamas government."	Abu Toameh questioned why, given this situation, the flotilla organizers did not plan to help Syrian and Libyan refugees, whose situation was worse, or to express solidarity with Saudi Arabian women who are being arrested for driving cars . 
noLabel	A study by Lott did not detect a relationship between CAP laws and accidental gun deaths or suicides among those age 19 and under between 1979 and 1996 .	The National Bureau of Economic Research has found that CAP laws are correlated with a reduction of non-fatal gun injuries among both children and adults by 30-40% .
noLabel	The development of these institutions runs a difficult course with investors who are interested both in the rule of law as it improves investment opportunities, and also in limiting their risk as investors.	The development of these institutions can be a low priority for a poor country, which must bear the cost of modifying its business code, essentially for the benefit of foreign capitalists. 
noLabel	Nobel Prize winning economist Milton Friedman argued for the modern concept of vouchers in the 1950s, stating that competition would improve schools and cost efficiency.	The view further gained popularity with the 1980 TV broadcast of Friedman's series Free to Choose for which volume 6 was devoted entirely to promoting "educational freedom" through programs like school vouchers . 
noLabel	Many ancient peoples recognized a religious "right of asylum", protecting criminals (or those accused of crime) from legal action and from exile to some extent.	This principle was adopted by the early Christian church, and various rules developed for what the person had to do to qualify for protection and just how much protection it was. 
noLabel	The practical determination of whether a person is a refugee or not is most often left to certain government agencies within the host country.	This can lead to a situation where the country will neither recognize the refugee status of the asylum seekers nor see them as legitimate migrants and treat them as illegal aliens. 
noLabel	Shortly after taking power in 1949, the Communist Party of China embarked upon a series of campaigns that purportedly eradicated prostitution from mainland China by the early 1960s.	However, since the loosening of government controls over society in the early 1980s, prostitution in mainland China not only has become more visible, but also can now be found throughout both urban and rural areas.
noLabel	However, the peers of African-American students are more likely to place less emphasis on education, sometimes accusing studious African-American students of "acting white."	This causes problems for black students who want to pursue higher levels of education, forcing some to hide their study or homework habits from their peers and perform below their academic potential .
noLabel	This is fueled at least in part by the fact that HGH is more difficult to detect than most other performance enhancing drugs, such as anabolic steroids.	Athletes competing in power sports, bodybuilding, professional wrestling, mixed martial arts, swimming, baseball, strength sports, track and field, cycling, soccer, weight lifting, and endurance sports have been said to abuse human growth hormone, often in combination with other performance enhancing drugs such as anabolic steroids, testosterone, products claiming to enhance HGH, and EPO . 
noLabel	Since they rely on the weaker jabs and straights (as opposed to hooks and uppercuts), they tend to win by points decisions rather than by knockout, although some out-fighters (such as Lennox Lewis, Félix Trinidad, Wladimir Klitschko, and Vitali Klitschko ) have notable knock out punches, outside fighters are known for being extremely quick on their feet, which often makes up for their relative lack of power.	Out-fighters are often regarded as the best boxers on account of their desire to win a fight by wearing an opponent down and outclassing an opponent by strategy, rather than simply knocking him out.
noLabel	He advocated a radical withdrawal of the child from society and an educational process that utilized the natural potential of the child and its curiosity, teaching it by confronting it with simulated real-life obstacles and conditioning it by experience rather than teaching it intellectually.	His ideas were rarely implemented directly, but were influential on later thinkers, particularly Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi and Friedrich Wilhelm August Fröbel, the inventor of the kindergarten.
noLabel	Games are the first new computer-based media form to socialize a generation of youth in a way that traditional media forms have in the past.	Therefore, the 'MTV generation' has been overtaken by the 'Nintendo generation'; however, some refer to the current generation as the 'iPod Generation'. 
noLabel	The PLA has also become a major economic player, and participant in large and small scale corruption at the same time.	Inconsistent tax policy, and a politicised and poorly organised banking system, create ample opportunities for favouritism, kickbacks, and "outright theft," according to Michael Johnston, Professor of Political Science at Colgate University in Hamilton, New York . 
noLabel	In 1984, the American Psychological Association announced that Lillian Moller Gilbreth (1878–1972) had become the first psychologist to be commemorated on a United States postage stamp.	However, psychologists Gary Brucato Jr. and John D. Hogan later made the case that this distinction actually belonged to John Dewey, who had been celebrated on an American stamp 17 years earlier.
noLabel	It has been suggested that rural communities might obtain fuel from the biochar and synfuel process, which uses agricultural waste to provide charcoal fertilizer, some fuel and food, instead of the normal food vs fuel debate.	As the synfuel would be used on-site, the process would be more efficient and might just provide enough fuel for a new organic-agriculture fusion . 
noLabel	In 1999, in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the Bologna Process, the Italian university system switched from the old system (vecchio ordinamento, which led to the traditional 5-year Laurea degree), to the new system (nuovo ordinamento).	The nuovo ordinamento split the former Laurea into two different tracks: the Laurea triennale (a three-year degree akin to the Bachelor's Degree), followed by the 2-year Laurea specialistica (Master's Degree), the latter renamed Laurea Magistrale in 2007.
noLabel	Subsidized by the Dutch government, the “Lang leve de liefde” (“Long Live Love”) package, developed in the late 1980s, aims to give teenagers the skills to make their own decisions regarding health and sexuality.	Nearly all secondary schools provide sex education, as part of biology classes and over half of primary schools discuss sexuality and contraception.
noLabel	One such tool are virtual manipulatives, which are an "interactive, Web-based visual representation of a dynamic object that presents opportunities for constructing mathematical knowledge" (Moyer, Bolyard, & Spikell, 2002).	In short, virtual manipulatives are dynamic visual/pictorial replicas of physical mathematical manipulatives, which have long been used to demonstrate and teach various mathematical concepts.
noLabel	The problem is that there are probably more cheaters in baseball than voting: a recent analysis found cases of alleged voter fraud running about one for every 16,000 voters.	What's more, voter ID laws work in such a way that a no-adults-in-Little-League equivalent would ban not just grownups from playing, but also anyone who looked adult-ish and didn't show up for practice with documentary evidence of minor status.The metaphor breaks down pretty quickly, however, and not just because a tall-person-free Little League might wind up still being a decent pastime for those involved (the tall people could play elsewhere).
noLabel	The World Bank estimated that in 2008 PNA would need $1.2 billion in recurrent budget support, in addition to $300 million in development aid .	The formation of the caretaker government in mid-2007 under Fayyad, and the resumption of aid have partially reversed the impacts of the aid boycott .
noLabel	However, the general rule is that a law does not apply outside the United States unless the language of the law expressly provides for such an application.	It is therefore unclear whether Congress would be able to prescribe punishments for those who burn the flag of the United States in a foreign country. 
noLabel	Eastern and southern areas are prone to shortages in late spring/early summer as temperatures and airconditioning demand rise, while reservoir levels and hydro output fall until the arrival of the summer rains in July and August.	Guangdong and other southern provinces import substantial quantities of expensive fuel oil and diesel to run additional generation capacity to cope with the resulting power gap. 
noLabel	Based on performance, they should not be allowed outdoors without white canes and seeing-eye dogs.Faced with overwhelming evidence that doping continues and that its own testing programmes are not effective, cycling should outsource them to an independent agency and act effectively to impose meaningful sanctions when positive cases arise.	Testing needs to be targeted, with no notice, and from the moment a rider has been notified that he has been selected for a test he must be supervised until the sample is provided.
noLabel	Steps have been taken within the United Nations to make this right more explicit; but those steps have been limited to secondary, more "marginal" United Nations documents.	That is why Amnesty International would like to have this right brought "out of the margins" and explicitly into the primary document, namely the UDHR itself .
noLabel	Following an extensive consultation period, revisions to the World Anti-Doping Code were unanimously adopted at the Third World Conference on Doping in Sport in November 2007 to incorporate the experience gained from the enforcement of the initial Code.	These revisions, which include a number of measures strengthening the global fight against doping in sport, took effect on 1 January 2009. 
noLabel	In many cases, treating a disease or controlling a pathogen can be vital to preventing it in others, such as during an outbreak.	Vaccination programs and distribution of condoms to prevent the spread of communicable diseases are examples of common preventive public health measures, as are educational campaigns to promote vaccination and the use of condoms (including overcoming resistance to such). 
noLabel	In 2003, the IAEA reported that Iran had been in breach of its obligations to comply with provisions of its safeguard agreement .	In 2005, the IAEA Board of Governors voted in a rare non-consensus decision to find Iran in non-compliance with its NPT Safeguards Agreement and to report that non-compliance to the UN Security Council .
noLabel	Whether exercising his discretion or acting on a petition from the school district, the governor was authorized to act only as an agent of the Assembly .	The governor was also required to try to persuade the African American child to return to his or her racially segregated school, so that the schools could reopen on a segregated basis .
noLabel	The Constitution guarantees absolute freedom of debate in both houses, providing in the Speech or Debate Clause of the Constitution that "for any Speech or Debate in either House, they shall not be questioned in any other Place."	Accordingly, a member of Congress may not be sued in court for slander because of remarks made in either house, although each house has its own rules restricting offensive speeches, and may punish members who transgress them. 
noLabel	“It is a central social-scientific question what people can be made to do by suitable design of conditions and of great practical importance.	For example, from a great number of experimental psychological experiments it can be assumed, that people can be made to do anything they are capable of, when the according social condition can be created.” . 
noLabel	There is support for the view that often equality of opportunity is measured by the criteria of equality of outcome, although with difficulty.	In one example, an analysis of relative equality of opportunity was done based on outcomes, such as a case to see whether hiring decisions were fair regarding men versus women; the analysis was done using statistics based on average salaries for different groups .
noLabel	The plan was principally financed using funds from USAID (36 million dollars), the Nippon Foundation, and later, the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) .	On September 9, 1995, Fujimori presented a Bill that would revise the "General Law of Population", in order to allow sterilization.
noLabel	India - About 150,000, Kashmiri Pandits from the entire state of Jammu and Kashmir have been internally displaced due to the aggressive and violent separatist movement.	Many adivasis(tribals) in the states(especially in Central India that fall in the Red Corridor) where the violence between the Naxals and the Indian State has been rising are forced by circumstances to move to the neighboring relatively peaceful states both for saving their lives and for employment. 
noLabel	In the Bangkok Declaration adopted by Ministers of Asian states meeting in 1993 in the lead up to the World Conference on Human Rights held in the same year, Asian governments reaffirmed their commitment to the principles of the United Nations Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.	They stated their view of the interdependence and indivisibility of human rights and stressed the need for universality, objectivity and non-selectivity of human rights.
noLabel	Indictments filed in federal court, documentation obtained by Senator Grassley, and statements of ATF agents obtained by Senator Grassley and CBS News, show that the ATF Phoenix Field Division allowed and facilitated the sale of over 2,500 firearms (AK-47 rifles, FN 5.7mm pistols, AK-47 pistols, and .50 caliber rifles) in 'straw man purchases' destined for Mexico .	According to ATF agents, Mexican officials were not notified, and ATF agents operating in Mexico were instructed not to alert Mexican authorities about the operation .
noLabel	The exemption for Church of England marriages was to be part of the legislation's downfall but, when the new provisions came into force, the London Borough of Brent experienced a drop of 50% in the overall number of marriages taking place.	The numbers of reports from all registrars of suspicious marriages dropped from 3,740 in 2004 to fewer than 200 between February 2005 and March 2006. 
noLabel	Cannon refused to comment on the documents, saying that they had "nothing to do with Canada" and denied the Canadian government was misleading its citizens on the war in Afghanistan .	New Democratic Party leader Jack Layton said that the documents "undermines the confidence" Canadian citizens have in their government and called on politicians to "get to the bottom of" the situation regarding the friendly fire report . 
noLabel	Scarce tax resources are allocated according to who has the most effective lobby, rather than on the basis of need or even likely success.	Federal funding also causes researchers to neglect potential treatments and cures that do not qualify for federal funds.” In his view, eliminating government sources of funds for medical research would probably improve the quality of research being performed .
noLabel	International refugee law defines a refugee as someone who seeks refuge in a foreign country because of war and violence, or out of fear of persecution.	The United States recognizes persecution "on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion, or membership in a particular social group" as grounds for seeking asylum .
noLabel	Aid officials and the UN praised the truce, but said it was not enough as fighting usually resumed immediately following the humanitarian ceasefires .	An Israeli Government report, published in July 2009, notes that during the period between 8 January and 17 January, Hamas fired a 
noLabel	Five days later, 96 members of the United States Congress sponsored a resolution (introduced by Senator Byrd) called the "Southern Manifesto", which denounced the Brown decision and encouraged states to "resist forced integration by any means.	" But moderate segregationist forces (which supported the Gray Commission plan) opposed the more extreme segregationists (who believed that public opinion was becoming more and more inflamed against Brown) .
noLabel	Hutson speculated that circumcision arose in peoples living in arid and sandy regions as a public health measure intended to prevent recurring irritation and infection caused by sand accumulating under the foreskin .	Darby, after checking the official war histories of Britain, Australia and New Zealand and other records, and finding no mention of ‘balanitis’ or ‘foreskin’ or ‘circumcision’, dismissed this idea as a “medical urban myth,” concluding that “‘sand under the foreskin,’ balanitis, and circumcision were not 
noLabel	Australians for Constitutional Monarchy (ACM) is a group that aims to preserve Australia's current constitutional monarchy, with Elizabeth II as Queen of Australia.	The group states that it is a non-partisan, not-for-profit organisation whose role is "To preserve, to protect and to defend our heritage: the Australian constitutional system, the role of the Crown in it and our Flag" .
noLabel	The goal of school choice programs is to give parents more control over their child's education, and to allow parents to pursue the most appropriate learning environments for children.	For example school choice may enable parents to choose a school that provides religious instruction for their children; stronger discipline; better foundational skills including reading, writing, mathematics, and science; everyday skills from handling money to farming, or other desirable foci. 
noLabel	Concussion, from the Latin concutere ("to shake violently") or the Latin concussus ("action of striking together"), is the most common type of traumatic brain injury.	The terms mild brain injury, mild traumatic brain injury (MTBI), mild head injury (MHI), minor head trauma, and concussion may be used interchangeably, although the latter is often treated as a narrower category .
noLabel	On January 29 six churches in the Iraqi cities of Baghdad and Kirkuk were targeted by car bombs, killing 13-year-old worshipper Fadi Raad Elias.	No militants claimed to be retaliating for the pictures, nor is this the first time Iraqi churches have been bombed; but the bishop of the church stated "The church blasts were a reaction to the cartoons published in European papers.
noLabel	The downward trajectory was steep enough to prompt the Prime Minister when speaking at the 2004 Labour Party conference to set a target for IND and the Immigration Service that, by 2006, the numbers of failed asylum seekers removed from the UK would exceed the numbers of new applications.	This became known as the “Tipping The Balance” target and the work to meet the target became the organisation's top priority.
noLabel	Some critics of summer vacation point out that American students spend approximately 180 days (36 weeks) per year in school, but Asian students are "in school for 240 to 250 days".	However, in certain Asian countries, like Singapore, students in both primary and secondary education get a week of holidays in March, a month in June, another week in September and a month and a half in November to December, meaning that Singaporean students spend around 200 days a year in school, not 240 to 250.
noLabel	primary health care clinics) were damaged over the course of the offensive and the UNOCHA said that over 50 United Nations facilities sustained damage, of which 28 reported damage in the first three days of the operation .	On 22 January 2010, Israel paid $10.5 million in compensation to the United Nations for damages to UN property incurred during the Israeli offensive . 
noLabel	UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on June&nbsp;5 that the IDF raid of the Mavi Marmara should be investigated by a New Zealand-led committee, with Israeli and Turkish deputies .	Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hoped the Israeli-led process would put an end to efforts in the United Nations to set up an international inquiry, which many Israelis fear would be biased.
noLabel	Voltaire, too, seized his pen to refute the philosophy of the Système in the article "Dieu" in his Dictionnaire philosophique, while Frederick the Great also drew up an answer to it.	Its principles are summed up in a more popular form in d'Holbach's Bon Sens, ou idées naturelles opposees aux idées surnaturelles .
noLabel	In a sense, the 1964 film Dr. Strangelove spells out of ideas in his book, and Dr. Strangelove's thoughts often match his own.	"The US Air Force commissioned a study of the idea [of making a doomsday device] with the Rand Corporation and they decided against it for reasons that by now must be all too obvious!"
noLabel	On 27 July 1794, the Thermidorian Reaction led to the arrest and execution of Robespierre, Louis de Saint-Just, and other leading Jacobins.	The new government was predominantly made up of Girondists who had survived the Terror, and after taking power, they took revenge as well by persecuting even those Jacobins who had helped to overthrow Robespierre, banning the Jacobin Club, and executing many of its former members in what was known as the White Terror . 
noLabel	Students in the US have recently been reluctant to pursue technology careers out of fear of offshore outsourcing or being displaced by visa workers.	If the pool of technology experts drops too far due to real or perceived influences of free trade, then the nation may become more dependent on other countries to run infrastructure. 
noLabel	The United States and most Latin American countries instead entered into the Buenos Aires Convention in 1910, which required a copyright notice (such as "all rights reserved") on the work, and permitted signatory nations to limit the duration of copyrights to shorter and renewable terms .	The Universal Copyright Convention was drafted in 1952 as another less demanding alternative to the Berne Convention, and ratified by nations such as the Soviet Union and developing nations. 
noLabel	Another method of confusing people into voting for a different candidate than they intended is to run candidates or create political parties with similar names or symbols as an existing candidate or party.	The aim is that enough voters will be misled into voting for the false candidate or party to influence the results .
noLabel	Perens attempted to register "open source" as a service mark for the OSI, but that attempt was impractical by trademark standards.	Meanwhile, due to the presentation of Raymond's paper to the upper management at Netscape—Raymond only discovered when he read the , and was called by Netscape CEO Jim Barksdale's PA later in the day—Netscape released its Navigator source code as open source, with favorable results.
noLabel	The IDF claimed that Hamas operated a command and control center inside Shifa Hospital in Gaza City throughout the War, and that Hamas field commanders exploited the daily cessation in fighting that the IDF established for humanitarian purposes to receive instructions from senior Hamas officials.	Addressing the Israeli cabinet, an intelligence official claimed that senior members of Hamas sought refuge in the sub-level floors believing that Israel would not target them for fear that such a strike would invariably lead to heavy collateral damage to the hospital patients in the upper floors .
noLabel	A policy framework must be created that will level the playing field and redress the imbalance of traditional approaches associated with fossil fuels.	The policy landscape must keep pace with broad trends within the energy sector, as well as reflecting specific social, economic and environmental priorities .
noLabel	near In Ekker in the then-French Algerian Sahara, and nuclear atmospheric tests at Fangataufa and nuclear undersea tests Moruroa in French Polynesia.	Additional atomic and chemical warfare tests took place in the secret base B2-Namous, near Ben Wenif, other tests involving rockets and missiles at C.I.E.E.S, near Hammaguir, both in the Sahara. 
noLabel	This includes activities such as helping their parents around the home, assisting in a family business or earning pocket money outside school hours and during school holidays.	These kinds of activities contribute to children’s development and to the welfare of their families; they provide them with skills and experience, and help to prepare them to be productive members of society during their adult life.
noLabel	If all herders make this individually rational economic decision, the common will be overexploited or even destroyed to the detriment of all.	However, since all herders reach the same rational conclusion, overexploitation in the form of overgrazing occurs, with immediate losses, and the pasture may be degraded to the point where it gives very little return. 
noLabel	In addition, Mourdock serves as the Chairman of the Indiana Bond Bank, the Wireless Enhanced 911 Advisory Board, and the Indiana Education Savings Authority.	Finally, Mourdock serves as the Secretary and Investment Manager of the Indiana Board for Depositories and the Trustee of the Indiana State Police Pension Plan.
noLabel	A kid thinks high school sports are everything: 'I have to take it to the next level to get bigger and stronger to play.'	You take every little step, every chance you get to win, to play, to step on that field in front of a couple of thousand people on Friday night.
noLabel	Some of the mineral apatite in Florida used to produce phosphate for U.S.A. tobacco crops contains uranium, radium, lead 210 and polonium 210 and radon .	 The radioactive smoke from tobacco fertilized this way is deposited in lungs and releases radiation even if a smoker quits the habit.
noLabel	It is not known exactly to what extent dams in Ethiopia would reduce the flow of water to Sudan and Ethiopia.	Assuming an evaporation rate of 1 meter per year, an irrigated area of 200,000 hectares and a combined reservoir area of 1,000 km2, the flow of the Nile could be reduced by 3 billion cubic meters per year, equivalent to about 5 percent of the current allocation of Egypt under the 1959 agreement. 
noLabel	Online co-op and deathmatch play still continues on servers listed through services such as Odamex, Skulltag, ZDaemon and Doom Connector .	Some of the source ports used for online play (for example Skulltag) also support additional game modes such as "last man standing", "survival" (co-op) and "invasion" modes. 
noLabel	Legislative state racism is known to have been enforced by the National Party of South Africa during their Apartheid regime between 1948 and 1994.	Here a series of Apartheid legislation in South Africa was passed through the legal systems to make it legal for white South Africans to have rights which were superior to those of non-white South Africans.
noLabel	In 2003, New York City amended its smoke-free law to include all restaurants and bars, including those in private clubs, making it, along with the California smoke-free law, one of the toughest in the United States.	The city's Department of Health found in a 2004 study that air pollution levels had decreased sixfold in bars and restaurants after the restrictions went into effect, and that New Yorkers had reported less second-hand smoke in the workplace.
noLabel	McCain had declined to sign the pledge of the group Americans for Tax Reform to not add any new taxes or increase existing taxes .	However, after he lost the presidential election in 2008, McCain became a signer of Americans for Tax Reform’s Taxpayer Protection Pledge .
noLabel	American college and university faculty, staff, alumni, students, and applicants monitor rankings produced by magazines such as U.S. News and World Report, Academic Ranking of World Universities, test preparation services such as The Princeton Review or another university itself such as the Top American Research Universities by the University of Florida's The Center .	These rankings are based on factors like brand recognition, selectivity in admissions, generosity of alumni donors, and volume of faculty research.
noLabel	Beyond discrete stimulus packages, federal spending tends to increase during recessions due to "automatic stabilizers" such as unemployment compensation and nutrition programs.	For example, during May 2010 CBO estimated that "automatic stabilizers added the equivalent of 1.9% of potential GDP to the [2009] deficit, an amount substantially greater than the 0.3% added in 2008.
noLabel	In his 1795 essay Perpetual Peace, Immanuel Kant stages a ius cosmopoliticum (cosmopolitan law/right) as a guiding principle to protect people from war, and morally grounds this cosmopolitan right by the principle of universal hospitality.	Kant there claimed that the expansion of hospitality with regard to "use of the right to the earth's surface which belongs to the human race in common" (see common heritage of humanity) would "finally bring the human race ever closer to a cosmopolitan constitution" . 
noLabel	The study found that "41 percent of the nation's charter closures resulted from financial deficiencies caused by either low student enrollment or inequitable funding," while 14% had closed due to poor academic performance.	The report also found that the absence of achievement data "correlates directly with the weakness of a state's charter school law.
noLabel	Friedrich Hayek argues for the classical liberal view that market economies allow spontaneous order; that is, "a more efficient allocation of societal resources than any design could achieve.	" According to this view, in market economies sophisticated business networks are formed which produce and distribute goods and services throughout the economy.
noLabel	It is the undertaking to decide that question for others, without allowing them to hear what can be said on the contrary side.	And I denounce and reprobate this pretension not the less if it is put forth on the side of my most solemn convictions .
noLabel	While limited by her gender, Madame Roland took it upon herself to spread Revolutionary ideology and spread word of events, as well as to assist in formulating the policies of her political allies.	Though unable to directly write policies or carry them through to the government, Roland was able to influence her political allies and thus promote her political agenda.
noLabel	Second-hand smoke is a mixture of smoke from the burning end of a cigarette, pipe or cigar and the smoke exhaled from the lungs of smokers.	It is involuntarily inhaled, lingers in the air hours after cigarettes have been extinguished, and can cause a wide range of adverse health effects, including cancer, respiratory infections and asthma .
noLabel	During his long tenure in the office (1968–79, 1980–84), Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau made social and cultural change his political goal for Canada, including the pursuit of an official policy on bilingualism and plans for significant constitutional change.	The west, particularly the oil and gas-producing province of Alberta, opposed many of the policies emanating from central Canada, with the National Energy Program creating considerable antagonism and growing western alienation.
noLabel	The range of often contradictory proposals highlights the fact that Canadian republicans are not fully united on what sort of republican form of government they believe the nation should adopt.	The Westminster-style parliamentary republican model, which is advocated by other Commonwealth republican movements, has been embraced by Citizens for a Canadian Republic as the preferred model for Canada.
noLabel	The sovereign of New Zealand also serves as the monarch of the Cook Islands and Niue, territories in free association with New Zealand within the larger Realm of New Zealand.	 The New Zealand monarchy, however, is unitary throughout all jurisdictions in the country, with the headship of state being a part of all equally.
noLabel	To allow insertion of the 3.62&nbsp;inch (92&nbsp;mm) diameter plutonium pit, containing the 0.83&nbsp;inch (21&nbsp;mm) diameter "Urchin" initiator, as late as possible in the device's assembly, the spherical 8.75&nbsp;inch (222&nbsp;mm) diameter U-238 tamper surrounded by a 0.125&nbsp;inch (3.2&nbsp;mm) thick shell of boron impregnated plastic had a 5&nbsp;inch (130&nbsp;mm) diameter cylindrical hole running through it, like the hole in a cored apple.	The missing U-238 tamper cylinder, containing the plutonium pit, could be slipped in through a hole in the surrounding 18.5&nbsp;inch (470&nbsp;mm) diameter aluminium pusher. 
noLabel	The agreement contained five articles, which dictated that Japan grant the United States the territorial means for it to establish a military presence in the Far East.	Moreover, the accord stated that Japan be prohibited from providing foreign powers any bases or any military-related rights without the consent of the United States.
noLabel	He once stated that his role in eliminating U.S. conscription was his proudest accomplishment, and his support for school choice led him to found The Friedman Foundation for Educational Choice.	In his 1962 book Capitalism and Freedom, Friedman advocated policies such as a volunteer military, freely floating exchange rates, abolition of medical licenses, a negative income tax, and education vouchers .
noLabel	In February 2012, Israel's Interior Ministry announced that South Sudanese nationals must repatriate by March, arguing they no longer need protection since South Sudan gained independence.	They will be given $1,300 and a plane ticket if they voluntarily resettle, but any who do not repatriate will be deported .
noLabel	The plight of the burakumin has also been presented in Hashi no nai kawa  (橋のない川 "The River With No Bridge") a novel by Sue Sumii (住井 すゑ), which received several film adaptations, in 1969, 1970 and 1992.	The title refers to the fact that areas in which burakumin lived were often separated by a river, but bridges to cross were rarely constructed. 
noLabel	In the last months of the Second World War, ethnic Germans were ethnically cleansed from Yugoslavia, Poland and Czechoslovakia, beginning in the fall of 1944 and going through the spring and summer of 1945.	At the Potsdam Conference July 17 – August 2, 1945 the Allies agreed to transferring the rest (article XIII of the Potsdam communiqué).
noLabel	In the 1978 official bulletin, the agency stated that its mission was to "help victims not count them", and questioned how they would have even been able to obtain such statistics had they wanted to, given that they were "only able to enter only a few concentration camps..in the final days of the war" .	The agency states that the figures used are "the number of deaths recorded by the International Tracing Service on the basis of documents found when the camps were closed", and accordingly bear no relation to the total death tolls, since the Nazis destroyed much documentation, and that many deaths occurred in camps where prisoners were generally not registered .
noLabel	The Law Commission in England suggested that there were two types of situation where what had previously been characterised as blasphemous material might generate a public interest in its prohibition.	The first is where there is incitement to hatred and the second is where there is simply an excessive offence to religious sensibilities.
noLabel	In an opinion piece for The Guardian, Jimmy Carter wrote that mainstream American politics does not give equal time to the Palestinian side of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and that this is due at least in part to AIPAC .	George Soros pointed out that there are risks associated with what was in his opinion a suppression of debate:"I do not subscribe to the myths propagated by enemies of Israel and I am not blaming Jews for anti-Semitism.
noLabel	Chinese law forbids the advocacy of independence for any part of its territory, as well as public challenge to CPC domination of the government of China.	An unauthorized protest during the Olympics by seven foreign activists at the Chinese Ethnic Culture Park, demanding Tibetan independence and blocking the park's entrance, was cleared and the protesters deported . 
noLabel	Congress, in the course of studying possible laws and investigating matters, generates an incredible amount of information in various forms, and can be described as a publisher .	Indeed, it publishes House and Senate reports and maintains databases which are updated irregularly with publications in a variety of electronic formats . 
noLabel	In a September 2007 public policy report, education experts Andrew Rotherham and Sara Mead of Education Sector offered a series of recommendations to improve charter school quality through increased accountability.	Some of their recommendations urged policymakers to: (i) provide more public oversight of charter school authorizers, including the removal of poor-quality authorizers, (ii) improve the quality of student performance data with more longitudinal student-linked data and multiple measures of school performance, and (iii) clarify state laws related to charter school closure, especially the treatment of displaced students .
noLabel	The Tsar Bomba is the single most physically powerful device ever used by man, though its size and weight precluded a successful delivery in case of a real war .	By contrast, the largest weapon ever produced by the United States, the now-decommissioned B41, had a predicted maximum yield of 25&nbsp;Mt, and the largest nuclear device ever tested by the US (Castle Bravo) yielded 15&nbsp;Mt (this was due to an unexpected runaway lithium-7 reaction; the design yield was approximately 5&nbsp;Mt).
noLabel	Wind power is growing at the rate of 30% annually, with a worldwide installed capacity of 158 gigawatts (GW) in 2009, and is widely used in Europe, Asia, and the United States .	At the end of 2009, cumulative global photovoltaic (PV) installations surpassed 21 GW and PV power stations are popular in Germany and Spain .
noLabel	Although the Queen's New Zealand title includes the phrase Defender of the Faith, neither the Queen nor the Governor-General has any religious role in New Zealand; there has never been an established church in the country.	This is one of the key differences from the Queen's role in England, where she is Supreme Governor of the Church of England.
noLabel	Evanston, Illinois, a Chicago suburb of 75,000 residents, became the largest town to ban handgun ownership in September 1982 but experienced no decline in violent crime.	It has subsequently ended its ban as a result of the District of Columbia v. Heller Supreme Court case, upon a federal lawsuit by the National Rifle Association being filed the day after Heller was entered. 
noLabel	The author connects this policy initiative with the context of ongoing conflict in Israel with Palestinian militants at the same time.	Melzer argues that the policy of targeted killing supported by the government of Israel was controversial &mdash; the issue came before the Israeli Supreme Court where a legal decision on the matter was not reached for almost five years.
noLabel	The groups aim to establish a wide-ranging commitment between the sectors of the government and society to conserve the rainforest and are aiming for an overall reduction in deforestation of 68,737.8 square kilometres in seven years.	Denise Hamú, the CEO of WWF-Brazil has said' "Only through the mobilization of state and federal governments, the private sector and environmental NGOs we can reach significant results for the conservation and promotion of sustainable development in the Amazon" .
noLabel	These amendments would have specifically required the Charter to be interpreted in a manner respectful of Quebec's distinct society, and would have added further statements to the Constitution Act, 1867 regarding racial and sexual equality and collective rights, and about minority language communities.	Though the Accord was negotiated among many interest groups, the resulting provisions were so vague that Trudeau, then out of office, feared they would actually conflict with and undermine the Charter's individual rights.
noLabel	The Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination regards this article as a mandatory obligation of parties to the Convention, and has repeatedly criticized parties for failing to abide by it .	It regards the obligation as consistent with the freedoms of opinion and expression affirmed in the UNDHR and ICCPR and notes that the latter specifically outlaws inciting racial discrimination, hatred and violence .
noLabel	Pumped-storage hydroelectricity or other forms of grid energy storage can store energy developed by high-wind periods and release it when needed .	Stored energy increases the economic value of wind energy since it can be shifted to displace higher cost generation during peak demand periods.
noLabel	Upland reservoirs tend to have a much shorter residence time than natural lakes and this can lead to more rapid cycling of nutrients through the water body so that they are more quickly lost to the system.	This may be seen as a mismatch between water chemistry and water biology with a tendency for the biological component to be more oligotrophic than the chemistry would suggest. 
noLabel	Cigar Aficionado, launched in 1992, was credited both by cigar companies and readers in transforming the U.S. cigar smoking market from a small blue-collar segment to an upscale market promoted in places like luxury hotels and golf courses.	The magazine presents cigars as symbols of a successful lifestyle, and is a major conduit of advertisements that do not conform to the tobacco industry's voluntary advertisement restrictions since 1965, such as a restriction not to associate smoking with glamour.
noLabel	The status of poor rural whites has often been compared to that of blacks, being also seen as suffering from slavery (because unable to compete with the free labor of slaves).	Such descriptions date to the 19th century, as is Uncle Tom's Cabin, and poor rural whites continue to lag on numerous socio-economic indicators (health, income, and the like) – see social and economic stratification in Appalachia. 
noLabel	Abnormal sex ratios at birth, possibly explained by growing incidence of sex-selective abortion, have also been noted in some other countries outside South and East Asia.	According to the 2011 CIA World Factbook, countries with more than 110 males per 100 females at birth also include Albania and former Soviet republics of Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan. 
noLabel	A major advantage to open source code is the ability for a variety of different people to edit and fix problems and errors that have occurred.	Naturally because there are more people who can edit the material there are more people who can help make the information more credible and reliable. 
noLabel	At least two Palestinians were killed by Israeli forces in the West Bank during protests against the offensive on Gaza: On January 4, a man among a crowd in Qalqilya who clashed with Israeli forces was shot dead, while on January 16, a teenager died after being shot in the head during a demonstration in Hebron .	The Palestinian Center For Human Rights (PCHR) reported that between January 15 and January 21, 36 others, including 16 children, were wounded by Israeli forces in the West Bank in various protests against the offensive .
noLabel	Former British Ambassador, and head of the FCO Maritime Section, Craig Murray said on his website that the raid was not an act of piracy, as the Israeli vessels carried a military commission, but said that it would be "an act of illegal warfare".	According to Murray, the Law of the Sea rules that, when an incident takes place on a ship on the high seas the applicable law is that of the flag state of the ship on which the incident occurred, so the Turkish ship was Turkish territory.
noLabel	However, it is pointed out that if Greek Orthodoxy is allowed to reopen a school it will become the only religion in Turkey with the right to an independent religious school.	Recent attempts by the conservative government to outlaw adultery caused an outcry in Turkey and was seen as an attempt to legislate Islamic values, but others point out that the legislation was intended to combat polygamy which is still common in rural areas, although not recognized legally.
noLabel	Since the epidemic is widespread, African governments relax their laws in order to get research conducted in their countries which they would otherwise not afford .	However, global organizations such as the Clinton Foundation, are working to reduce the cost of HIV/AIDS medications in Africa and elsewhere.
noLabel	A person does not have to have each of these, but if something has all five then it definitely is a person whether it is biologically human or not, while if it has none or perhaps only one then it is not a person, again whether it is biologically human or not.	The fetus has at most one, consciousness (and this only after it becomes susceptible to pain—the timing of which is disputed), and hence is not a person . 
noLabel	Proprietary software which is no longer marketed by its owner and is used without permission by users is called abandonware and may include source code.	Some abandonware has the source code released to the public domain either by its author or copyright holder and is therefore free software, and no longer proprietary software. 
noLabel	In the late 1970s American spy satellites detected a "brief, intense, double flash of light near the southern tip of Africa.	" Known as the Vela Incident, it was speculated to have been a South African or possibly Israeli nuclear weapons test, though some feel that it may have been caused by natural events or a detector malfunction. 
noLabel	In recent years, the federal government conducted purges and prosecution of police forces in Nuevo Laredo, Michoacán, Baja California and Mexico City .	The anti-cartel operations begun by President Calderón in December 2006 includes ballistic checks of police weapons in places where there is 
noLabel	New Zealand is reputed to have the most open agricultural markets in the world after radical reforms started in 1984 by the Fourth Labour Government all subsidies were stopped.	As the country is a large agricultural exporter, continued subsidies by other countries are a long-standing bone of contention, with New Zealand being a founding member of the 19-member Cairns Group fighting to improve market access for exported agricultural goods.
noLabel	Look at Ronald Reagan's campaign ads in the 1980s - they were masterpieces of nostalgia promising a return to America's past glory and prosperity.	The Internet, on the other hand, is a forward-thinking and forward-moving medium, embracing change and pushing the envelope of technology and communication. 
noLabel	The Sooners had been ranked first in both the human polls and the BCS rankings going into the season's final week, but dropped #3 in the human polls after being defeated by the Wildcats.	While the severe defeat seemingly eliminated the Sooners from title contention, they were still ranked first in the computer rankings by a large enough margin to give the Sooners the top spot in the final BCS rankings (the computer rankings didn't take time of loss into account).
noLabel	The futurist and cold war strategist Herman Kahn (1922–1982) believed that although MAD was useful as a metaphor, when pushed to its logical conclusion it became absurd.	In his 1960 book On Thermonuclear War he advocated a more reasoned approach to nuclear warfare and was misunderstood by some of his critics to be a nuclear war hawk.
noLabel	When the Derg military regime seized power in 1975, socialism was declared the guiding ideology for Ethiopia and all rural and forest land was nationalized.	Central and Eastern European experience has taught us that state ownership of land is a disincentive to manage it productively and sustainably.
noLabel	Organizations such as Community Forestry International, Cool Earth, The Nature Conservancy, World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation International, African Conservation Foundation and Greenpeace also focus on preserving forest habitats.	Greenpeace in particular has also mapped out the forests that are still intact and published this information on the internet .
noLabel	In 1946 after a long and protracted debate, the Atomic Energy Act was passed, creating the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) as a civilian agency which would be in charge of the production of nuclear weapons and research facilities, funded through Congress, with oversight provided by the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy.	The AEC was given vast powers of control over secrecy, research, and money, and could seize lands with suspected uranium deposits.
noLabel	"Natural" evils such as earthquakes and many diseases are sometimes seen as problems for free will theodicies since they don't seem to be caused by free decisions.	Possible reasons for natural evils include that they are caused by the free choices of supernatural beings such as demons (these beings are not so powerful as to limit God's omnipotence—another possible response, discussed later); that they are caused by original sin which in turn is caused by free will; that they are caused by natural laws that must operate as they do if intelligent, free agents are to exist; or that through observation and copying they allow humans to perform greater evils, which makes moral decisions more significant . 
noLabel	The USDA announced on 2008-08-27 that 639 farms and rural businesses in 43 states and the Virgin Islands have been selected to receive $35 million in grants and loan guarantees for renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements.	While many of the awards typically go towards more energy-efficient grain dryers, the USDA notes that a farm in Iowa will use its grant to replace a propane heating system with a geothermal heating system, while a firm in Louisiana will purchase energy-efficient electric motors for an irrigation well . 
noLabel	The most important element of advertising is not information but suggestion - more or less making use of associations, emotions and drives in the subconscious, such as sex drive, herd instinct, desires such as happiness, health, fitness, appearance, self-esteem, reputation, belonging, social status, identity, adventure, distraction, reward, fears such as illness, weaknesses, loneliness, need, uncertainty, security or of prejudices, learned opinions and comforts.	"All human needs, relationships, and fears – the deepest recesses of the human psyche – become mere means for the expansion of the commodity universe under the force of modern marketing.
noLabel	The Keystone XL has faced lawsuits from oil refineries and criticism from environmentalists and some members of the United States Congress.	The U.S. Department of State in 2010 extended the deadline for federal agencies to decide if the pipeline is in the national interest, and in November, 2011, President Obama postponed the decision until 2013.
noLabel	CND's declared policies were the unconditional renunciation of the use, production of or dependence upon nuclear weapons by Britain and the bringing about of a general disarmament convention.	In the meantime, Britain should halt the flight of planes armed with nuclear weapons, end nuclear testing, not proceed with missile bases and not provide nuclear weapons to any other country . 
noLabel	In the early 19th century, reform-minded groups began to form in the British colonies in Canada; from them rose William Lyon Mackenzie, who, along with Louis-Joseph Papineau, was the first prominent proponent of a republican Canada.	Their causes were countered by the Lieutenant Governors and Executive Council members at the time, as well as a majority of the colonists, who did not espouse a break with the Crown, and the rebellions ultimately failed. 
noLabel	Hirsch put forth an influential attack on one or more versions of progressive education, advocating an emphasis on "cultural literacy"--the facts, phrases, and texts that Hirsch asserted every American had once known and that now only some knew, but was still essential for decoding basic texts and maintaining communication.	Hirsch's ideas remain significant through the 1990s and into the 21st century, and are incorporated into classroom practice through textbooks and curricula published under his own imprint.
noLabel	The 19th century saw the arrival of various evangelical free churches, and, towards the end of the century, secularism, leading many to distance themselves from Church rituals.	Leaving the Church of Sweden became legal with the so-called dissenter law of 1860, but only under the provision of entering another Christian denomination.
noLabel	Some scientists estimate that a nuclear war that resulted in 110 Hiroshima-size atomic explosions would cause significant loss of life, in the tens of millions.	There would also be much soot thrown up into the atmosphere which would blanket the earth, causing the disruption of food chains .
noLabel	The blockade of the Gaza strip continued after the end of the war, although Israel allowed in limited quantities of medical humanitarian aid.	The Red Cross said that the blockade was harming the Gazan economy and causing a shortage of basic medicines and equipment such as painkillers and x-ray film . 
noLabel	Several authors believe that the United States’ federal and state governments have chosen the wrong method to combat the distribution of drugs.	By financing domestic law enforcement (which includes activities focused on the criminal justice system, such as the courts, police, and prosecution) in favor of treatment (which includes helping users become drug-free through in-patient and out-patient counseling and other services), the government has focused on punishment rather than prevention.
noLabel	This is often done when the reservoir frequently reaches full capacity and water either has to be used for electricity generation or be released through the spillway.	Another factor is whether the plants have to release significant quantities of water downstream in order to maintain the stream habitat.
noLabel	The resulting Federal Regulation of Lobbying Act (1946) governed lobbying rules up until 1995 when the Lobbying Disclosure Act replaced it .	The Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971, later amended in 2002 as the McCain Feingold Act, had rules governing campaign contributions .
noLabel	The meeting takes a markedly contentious turn with Haggard asserting that "this issue" of "intellectual arrogance" is the reason why people like Dawkins, and others who dispute creationism, have a problem with people of faith.	This scene ends with Haggard telling Dawkins that as he [Dawkins] ages he will find himself "wrong on some things, right on some other things", and so he shouldn't be arrogant. 
noLabel	The dowry system is described as follows: “Dowry is paid in kind or in cash by the bride’s family to the groom’s, and often includes post-marriage transfers, as well.	High dowry will ensure a proper marriage into the best possible family – hypergamy, or women “marrying up”, being a tacit norm– and ensures additional prestige and reputation to the bride’s family.”[2]  Indian women practise selective abortion and hereby cause an imbalanced sex ratio of boys to girls 100: 80.
noLabel	The Global Centre for Pluralism () is an international centre for research, education and exchange about the values, practices and policies that underpin pluralist societies .	Based in Ottawa, Canada, the Centre seeks to assist the creation of successful societies and was founded on the premise that tolerance, openness and understanding towards the cultures, social structures, values and faiths of other peoples are now essential to the survival of an interdependent world. 
noLabel	Hemenway, however, also argues that the Kleck figure is inconsistent with other known statistics for crime, citing that Kleck's figures apparently show that guns are many times more often used for self-defense in burglaries, than there are incidents of bulgaries of properties containing gun owners with awake occupants .	Hemenway concludes that under reasonable assumptions of random errors in sampling, because of the rarity of the event, the 2.5 million figure should be considered only as the top end of a 0-2.5 million confidence interval, suggesting a highly unreliable result that is likely a great overestimate, with the true figure at least 10 times less.
noLabel	If a large fraction of a system's energy is to come from wind power, provisions must be made to supply load during days with low wind.	These provisions might take the form of spinning reserve already allocated in the system, start-up of stand-by power plants, or interconnections to other areas that can take up the load. 
noLabel	Also, the large surface areas these roots create provide support and stability to rainforests trees, which commonly grow to significant heights.	This added stability allows these trees to withstand the impacts of severe storms, thus reducing the occurrence of fallen trees .
noLabel	If an SPM's sales volume or market share declines below the grandfathered amount, then it is not required to make any payments to the settling states.	SPMs that failed to join the MSA within 90 days of its execution do not receive the benefit of any grandfathered amount. 
noLabel	The original doctrine of U.S. MAD was modified on July 25, 1980, with U.S. President Jimmy Carter's adoption of countervailing strategy with Presidential Directive&nbsp;59.	According to its architect, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, "countervailing strategy" stressed that the planned response to a Soviet attack was no longer to bomb Russian population centers and cities primarily, but first to kill the Soviet leadership, then attack military targets, in the hope of a Russian surrender before total destruction of the USSR (and the United States).
noLabel	The discovery of nuclear fission occurred in 1938, following nearly five decades of work on the science of radioactivity and the elaboration of new nuclear physics that described the components of atoms.	In 1911, New Zealander Ernest Rutherford proposed a model of the atom in which a very small, dense and positively charged nucleus of protons was surrounded by orbiting, negatively charged electrons (the Rutherford model) .
noLabel	The Inquisitions of Medieval Europe were partially born out of the effort to drive Muslims out of Europe, an effort which was partly successful.	Recent popes, such as John Paul II and Benedict XVI, have worked for improved relations with other churches and religions by holding ecumenical and interfaith discussions trying to find common ground on certain issues. 
noLabel	Other side-effects can include alterations in the structure of the heart, such as enlargement and thickening of the left ventricle, which impairs its contraction and relaxation .	Possible effects of these alterations in the heart are hypertension, cardiac arrhythmias, congestive heart failure, heart attacks, and sudden cardiac death .
noLabel	LeRoy Carhart, a Nebraska physician who specialized in late-term abortions, brought suit against Don Stenberg, the Attorney General of Nebraska, seeking declaratory judgment that a state law banning certain forms of abortion was unconstitutional, based on the undue burden test mentioned by a dissenting opinion in Akron v. Akron Center for Reproductive Health and by the Court in Planned Parenthood v. Casey.	Both a federal district court and the U.S. Court of Appeals ruled in favor of Carhart before the case was appealed to the Supreme Court. 
noLabel	The study noted that seven prior studies in the past nine years, including one by the Center for Naval Research and the Office of Technology Assessment, had come to similar conclusions.	Interdiction efforts, using current armed forces resources, would have almost no effect on cocaine importation into the United States, the report concluded . 
noLabel	In correlation with the statement, the IDF uploaded a video to the internet depicting what it said was a Hamas gunman planting an explosive device and then attempting to take shelter in a home of uninvolved civilians waving white flags during fighting in Gaza .	Nevertheless, as of September 2009, the IDF is investigating several similar allegations, including the complaint filed by the Al-Mezan Center for Human Rights on behalf of the Abd Rabbo family .
noLabel	The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) is an extension to United States copyright law passed unanimously on May 14, 1998, which criminalizes the production and dissemination of technology that allows users to circumvent technical copy-restriction methods.	Under the Act, circumvention of a technological measure that effectively controls access to a work is illegal if done with the primary intent of violating the rights of copyright holders. 
noLabel	In the Nordic System of labour market regulation, the government’s legislative role is limited in the same way as in the Anglo-Saxon system.	However, in contrast to the countries in the Anglo-Saxon system category, this is a much more widespread network of collective agreements, which covers most industries and most firms.
noLabel	Part 1 (Articles 1 – 7) commits parties to the elimination of all forms of racial discrimination and to promoting understanding among all races (Article 2).	Parties are obliged to not discriminate on the basis of race, not to sponsor or defend racism, and to prohibit racial discrimination within their jurisdictions.
noLabel	On the 9th of February 2007 58 representants of communities in the Lacandon region signed the Declaration of Moxviquil in which they demanded the project to be suspended.	The most important reasons stated in the document were that they were not properly informed about the project, which is a violation of ILO convention 169  and the Mexican Constitution (art.2).
noLabel	But in the midst of all the shutdown hysteria and the freakishness of the Capitol Hill car chase, an important bit of news got lost.	News that gave me a teeny bit of hope for 21st century politics: attorney general Eric Holder and the Department of Justice filed suit against a North Carolina voting law.
noLabel	CIFOR's research and expert analysis help policy makers and practitioners shape effective policy, improve the management of tropical forests and address the needs and perspectives of people who depend on forests for their livelihoods.	CIFOR's multidisciplinary approach considers the underlying drivers of deforestation and degradation, which often lie outside the forestry sector: forces such as agriculture, infrastructure development, trade and investment policies and law enforcement. 
noLabel	Hence the widespread, enthusiastic support of voter ID laws (they poll with about 75% in favor) makes total sense if you see the laws exactly the way their authors and promoters talk about them ΓÇô as barriers to voter fraud.	After all, voter fraud is when criminals unfairly manipulate voting, the most basic expression of fairness available in a democracy.Asking Americans if they support measures against voter fraud is like asking if they support measures against adults suiting up for Little League baseball.
noLabel	In March 2007, the project received approval from Ian Bowles, the Massachusetts Secretary of Energy and Environmental Affairs, as required by the Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act (MEPA) .	In October 2007, the Cape Cod Commission declined to approve Cape Wind without further study of the impact by the developers . 
noLabel	It can be noted that autopsies of eleven professional American football players by Dr. Ann McKee, of Boston University School of Medicine, found CTE in all cases .	CTE has been diagnosed (also by the Boston University group) in one amateur football player, University of Pennsylvania lineman Owen Thomas, following his suicide . 
noLabel	They paid little attention to the complaints of people like Ilan Pappé, former professor of history at the University of Haifa, "Israel uses genocidal policies in Gaza."	The lack of UN action was left to pass blankly, whose commission investigating the massacre of Freedom Flotilla I was paralyzed (as though we do not know why).
noLabel	More importantly, the contests were open to all, and the enforced anonymity of each submission guaranteed that neither gender nor social rank would determine the judging.	Indeed, although the "vast majority" of participants belonged to the wealthier strata of society ("the liberal arts, the clergy, the judiciary, and the medical profession"), there were some cases of the popular classes submitting essays, and even winning . 
noLabel	Some questioned whether Mitchell being a director of the Boston Red Sox created a conflict of interest especially because no prime Red Sox players were named in the report, despite the fact that Red Sox stars David Ortiz and Manny Ramirez were later found to have used performance enhancing substances during the 2003 season, as reported by the New York Times on July 30, 2009 .	Likewise, the report was commissioned by Selig, and no members of the Milwaukee Brewers, whom Selig once owned, appeared in the report. 
noLabel	In Brazil, there are a few hundred public universities funded by the Federal or State governments, and they include the most renowned universities in the country, such as the University of São Paulo and the State University of Campinas.	Professors are public servants, most of them tenured and selected by public contests, where international research publications is a major criterion for hiring.
noLabel	Production Tax Credits (PTC) were a part of the Energy Policy Act of 1992(102nd Congress H.R.776.ENR, abbreviated as EPACT92)and are intended for wind and bioenergy resources.	The purpose of the Production Tax Credit is to support renewable energy based upon the environmental, economic, and energy security benefits that renewable energy resources can provide.
noLabel	The idea that social isolations cannot exist on the internet must not be confused with the effects that the Internet has on isolating individuals within society.	One idea focuses on how the Internet has a positive or negative effect on people's lives though their usage of the Internet.
noLabel	On 31 December 1938, both the Nansen Office and High Commission were dissolved and replaced by the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees under the Protection of the League .	This coincided with the flight of several hundred thousand Spanish Republicans to France after their loss to the Nationalists in 1939 in the Spanish Civil War .
noLabel	His will is executed by mysterious visitors who visit him to ask him questions about how events should play out, and then return to presumably ensure that events transpire as the Old Man orders.	It can be assumed that as the Old Man doesn't really believe in anything (or indeed, anyone), he does not sincerely consider the issues which are laid before him and merely answers philosophically, thereby answering the question of why the universe is in the terrible state that it is in.
noLabel	Activists on two ships, one in Greece and one in Turkey, found similar damage to their propeller shafts, and claimed that the ships had been sabotaged by Israel .	It was reported that the investigation by Turkish authorities on one of the ships determined that there may have been no sabotage at all, and that any damage happened before the boat arrived in Turkey, but these media reports appeared prior to the formal investigation beginning and the Turkish coastguard enquiry has yet to announce its findings.
noLabel	Critics of multiculturalism often debate whether the multicultural ideal of benignly co-existing cultures that interrelate and influence one another, and yet remain distinct, is sustainable, paradoxical, or even desirable .	It is argued that Nation states, who would previously have been synonymous with a distinctive cultural identity of their own, lose out to enforced multiculturalism and that this ultimately erodes the host nations' distinct culture . 
noLabel	Key tenets of sport include that the result should not be predetermined, and that both sides should have equal opportunity to win.	Rules are in place to ensure that fair play to occur, but participants can break these rules in order to gain advantage. 
noLabel	One major fluctuation was reported in a computer reconstruction of China's population trends from 1953 to 1987 produced by the United States Bureau of the Census.	The computer model showed that the crude death rate increased dramatically during the famine years associated with the Great Leap Forward (1958–60). 
noLabel	The explosive yield of a nuclear weapon is the amount of energy discharged when a nuclear weapon is detonated, expressed usually in the equivalent mass of trinitrotoluene (TNT), either in kilotons (thousands of tons of TNT) or megatons (millions of tons of TNT), but sometimes also in terajoules (1 kiloton of TNT = 4.184 TJ).	Because the precise amount of energy released by TNT is and was subject to measurement uncertainties, especially at the dawn of the nuclear age, the accepted convention is that one kt of TNT is simply defined to be 1012 calories equivalent, this being very roughly equal to the energy yield of 1,000 tons of TNT. 
noLabel	These regions have experienced strong warming at a mean rate of 0.26 degrees Celsius per decade which coincides with a global rise in temperature resulting from the anthropogenic inputs of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.	Studies have also found that precipitation has declined and tropical Asia has experienced an increase in dry season intensity whereas Amazonia has no significant pattern change in precipitation or dry season .
noLabel	Many Canadian broadcast stations broadcast sexually explicit or violent programming under certain circumstances, albeit with viewer discretion advisories and at adult-oriented times on the schedule.	CTV, for example, has aired controversial series such as The Sopranos, Nip/Tuck and The Osbournes in prime time without editing, and some Canadian television broadcasters, such as Citytv, have aired softcore pornography after 12:00 a.m. EST, which can therefore be viewed as early as 9:00 p.m. in other parts of Canada (i.e., anywhere in the Pacific Time Zone). 
noLabel	Although the concept was not voiced at the time it was the start of a longer term policy of "exporting the border", that is, to move the border control abroad so as to avoid the costly processes of in-country detention, in-country appeals and combating illegal entry.	This was good in theory but had to be balanced against the very formidable costs of setting up visa issuing posts abroad and the fact that the management of those posts came under the purview of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office.
noLabel	Tobacco leaves are harvested and aged using a process that combines use of heat and shade to reduce sugar and water content without causing the large leaves to rot.	This first part of the process, called curing, takes between 25 and 45 days and varies substantially based upon climatic conditions as well as the construction of sheds or barns used to store harvested tobacco.
noLabel	Tobacco, one of the most widely-used addictive substances in the world, is a plant native to the Americas and historically one of the half-dozen most important crops grown by American farmers.	More specifically, tobacco refers to any of various plants of the genus Nicotiana, (especially N. tabacum) native to tropical America and widely cultivated for their leaves, which are dried and processed chiefly for smoking in pipes, cigarettes, and cigars; it is also cut to form chewing tobacco or ground to make snuff or dipping tobacco, as well as other less common preparations.
noLabel	At the September 2009 Quds Day ceremonies in Tehran, Ahmadinejad stated Israel was created on "a lie and a mythical claim," that the Western powers "launched the myth of the Holocaust.	They lied, they put on a show and then they support the Jews" – what the New York Times considered his "among his harshest statements on the topic," and one immediately condemned by the US, UK, French and German governments . 
noLabel	The seven liberal arts &mdash; the Trivium (Grammar, Rhetoric, and Logic), and the Quadrivium (Arithmetic, Geometry, Music, and Astronomy) &mdash; had been codified in late antiquity.	This was the basis of the curriculum in western Europe until newly available Arabic texts and the works of Aristotle became available in Western Europe in the 12th century. 
noLabel	Rainforests can be found in Asia, Australia, Africa, South America, Central America, Mexico and on many of the Pacific, Caribbean, and Indian Ocean islands.	Within the World Wildlife Fund's biome classification, tropical rainforests are thought to be a type of tropical wet forest (or tropical moist broadleaf forest) and may also be referred to as lowland equatorial evergreen rainforest .
noLabel	By contrast, some non-scientific studies, including one conducted by Philip Morris in the Czech Republic and another by the Cato Institute, support the opposite position.	Philip Morris has explicitly apologised for the former study, saying: "The funding and public release of this study which, among other things, detailed purported cost savings to the Czech Republic due to premature deaths of smokers, exhibited terrible judgment as well as a complete and unacceptable disregard of basic human values.
noLabel	Whilst mass immigration since the Second World War has diluted this conflict, the Catholic-Protestant divide has been cited as a dynamic in the republic debate, particularly in relation to the referendum campaign in 1999 .	Nonetheless, others have stated that Catholic-Protestant tensions &mdash; at least in the sense of an Irish-British conflict &mdash; are at least forty years dead . 
noLabel	He sponsored the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act supporting divestment of state pension funds from Iran's oil and gas industry, which has not passed committee; and co-sponsored legislation to reduce risks of nuclear terrorism .	Obama also sponsored a Senate amendment to the State Children's Health Insurance Program, providing one year of job protection for family members caring for soldiers with combat-related injuries .
noLabel	Industry associations for musical works, movies, and publishing, including the National Association of Broadcasters, the Motion Picture Association of America, Recording Industry Association of America, National Cable & Telecommunications Association, and the Future of Music Coalition, also submitted briefs to the court in favor of striking down the law, fearing that should the law found to be constitutional, their industries would also be affected .	Associations for the protection of civil rights, including the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Coalition Against Censorship, and the National Youth Rights Association, submitted amicus briefs .
noLabel	A 2011 Gallup poll revealed that 26% of the population supported a total ban on handguns — the lowest level since the poll was first taken in 1959 (when support for a total ban was 60% of the population).	This same poll revealed that 43% of Americans in 2011 preferred more restrictive gun laws, compared to 78% when the question was first asked in the 1990 version of the poll .
noLabel	Works of natural history include René-Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur's Histoire naturelle des insectes and Jacques Gautier d'Agoty's La Myologie complète, ou description de tous les muscles du corps humain (1746).	However, as François-Alexandre Aubert de La Chesnaye des Bois's Dictionnaire de la Noblesse (1770) indicates, natural history was very often a political affair.
noLabel	A cross-sectional survey 73,464 of adolescents in Minnesota conducted in 1998 found that fear of pregnancy was the most commonly cited reason for choosing abstinence, especially among girls as well as boys who had caused a pregnancy in the past, along with a fear of sexually transmitted infections.	Other reasons included a lack of desire, being afraid of getting caught, and the belief that sex was not appropriate for someone of their age . 
noLabel	New enterprises and foreign investment can be driven away by the results of inefficient institutions, corruption, the weak rule of law and excessive bureaucratic burdens .	It takes two days, two bureaucratic procedures, and $280 to open a business in Canada while an entrepreneur in Bolivia must pay $2,696 in fees, wait 82 business days, and go through 20 procedures to do the same .
noLabel	The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency‎ (USEPA) Green Power Partnership is a voluntary program that supports the organizational procurement of renewable electricity by offering expert advice, technical support, tools and resources.	This can help organizations lower the transaction costs of buying renewable power, reduce carbon footprint, and communicate its leadership to key stakeholders . 
noLabel	Transparency International currently publishes three measures, updated annually: a Corruption Perceptions Index(CPI) (based on aggregating third-party polling of public perceptions of how corrupt different countries are); a Global Corruption Barometer (based on a survey of general public attitudes toward and experience of corruption); and a Bribe Payers Index, looking at the willingness of foreign firms to pay bribes.	The Corruption Perceptions Index is the best known of these metrics, though it has drawn much criticism and may be declining in influence . 
noLabel	A study published in the Journal of Geophysical Research in July 2007, Nuclear winter revisited with a modern climate model and current nuclear arsenals: Still catastrophic consequences, used current climate models to look at the consequences of a global nuclear war involving most or all of the world's current nuclear arsenals (which the authors described as being only about a third the size of the world's arsenals twenty years earlier).	The authors used a global circulation model, ModelE from the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, which they noted "has been tested extensively in global warming experiments and to examine the effects of volcanic eruptions on climate."
noLabel	In the United States, voter suppression was used extensively by Democrats in most Southern states until the Voting Rights Act (1965) made most disenfranchisement and voting qualifications illegal.	Traditional voter suppression tactics included the institution of poll taxes and literacy tests, aimed at suppressing the votes of African Americans and working class white voters .
noLabel	The Kemeny-Young method, the Schulze method (also known as "Schwartz sequential dropping", "cloneproof Schwartz sequential dropping" or the "beatpath method") and Ranked pairs are recently designed Condorcet methods that satisfy a large number of voting system criteria.	These three Condorcet methods either fully rank, or can be used to fully rank, all the candidates from most popular to least popular.
noLabel	The Human Rights Committee states that this, "distinguishes the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief from the freedom to manifest religion or belief.	It does not permit any limitations whatsoever on the freedom of thought and conscience or on the freedom to have or adopt a religion or belief of one's choice.
noLabel	That honour belongs in perpetuity to the US states who have extended the smoking ban in prisons all the way to death row inmates.	"Their health will improve," one lawmaker honked when California passed its ban, ensuring prisoners would face lethal injection with a slightly cleaner pair of lungs.)
noLabel	Also, the reduced pH can potentially throw off the pH-sensitive enzymes in a particular type of bioassay (EMIT) often (but not always) used as the initial screening test, even for non-amine-containing drugs such as THC.	Also, the effects of urine acidification on detection times (for any substance) are modest at best, often practically insignificant, and drinking vinegar is thus not very reliable as a standalone measure for beating a drug test .
noLabel	When constitutional amendments were being considered in the 1960s, the role of the monarchy was not strenuously questioned, as it was deemed to be "no great priority in the present round of constitutional changes.	" This statement was reflected in the four opinion polls conducted in 1970, which showed that the monarchy was favoured by two thirds of those questioned.
noLabel	As his campaign became more successful, other politicians strove for a seat on the bandwagon, hoping to be associated with his success.	Later, during the time of William Jennings Bryan's 1900 presidential campaign, bandwagons had become standard in campaigns, and "jump on the bandwagon" was used as a derogatory term, implying that people were associating themselves with the success without considering what they associated themselves with.
noLabel	The second law, the Law on Forced Migrants, addressed those asylum seekers who either already had Russian citizenship or were qualified to obtain it.	These migrants were mainly people living in FSU republics, with or without Russian citizenship, that were forced to move to Russia after the fall of the Soviet Union for economic reasons.
noLabel	Health risks are similar to cigarette smoking in nicotine addiction, periodontal health, tooth loss, and many types of cancer, including cancers of the mouth, throat, and esophagus.	Cigar smoking also can cause cancers of the lung and larynx, where the increased risk is less than that of cigarettes.
noLabel	While Iraq was defeated in a war, allowing the UN the opportunity to seek out and destroy its nuclear weapons programme as part of the cease-fire conditions, the DPRK was not defeated, nor was it vulnerable to other measures, such as trade sanctions.	It can scarcely afford to import anything, and sanctions on vital commodities, such as oil, would either be ineffective or risk provoking war. 
noLabel	It impacted politics in the mid-19th century because of the large inflows of immigrants from cultures that were somewhat different from the existing American culture.	Thus, nativists objected primarily to Irish Roman Catholics because of their loyalty to the Pope and also because of their supposed rejection of republicanism as an American ideal . 
noLabel	In recent years, some have criticized Western RPGs for "becoming less RPG-like and more [like] true action games" due to the "removal of numbers and rules" that make "the genre an RPG.	" Christian Nutt of GameSpy has also stated that, in contrast to Japanese RPGs, Western RPGs' greater control over the development and customization of playable characters has come at the expense of plot and gameplay, resulting in generic dialogue, lack of character development within the narrative, and poor battle systems .
noLabel	In March 2010, the Pope sent a Pastoral Letter to the Catholic Church in Ireland addressing cases of sexual abuse by Catholic priests to minors, expressing sorrow, and promising changes in the way accusations of abuse are dealt with .	Victim groups claim the letter failed to clarify if secular law enforcement has priority over canon law confidentiality pertaining to internal investigation of abuse allegations .
noLabel	In March 2010, the Toronto Renewable Energy Co-operative (TREC), incorporated in 1998, began organizing a new co-operative called "The Lakewind Project.	" Its initial project, WindShare, completed in 2002 on the grounds of Exhibition Place in central downtown Toronto, was the first wind turbine installed in a major North American urban city centre, and the first community-owned wind power project in Ontario .
noLabel	There are however situations, such as the expulsion of Germans after World War II, where ethnic cleansing has taken place without legal redress (see Preussische Treuhand v. Poland).	Timothy V. Waters argues that if similar circumstances arise in the future, this precedent would allow the ethnic cleansing of other populations under international law .
noLabel	The ruling found that Bursey was not the victim of selective prosecution because Bursey was the only person who had refused an order to leave the area.	However, this overlooks the fact that nobody else refused to leave the zone because nobody else was asked to leave .
noLabel	Much-influenced by the work of Stanley Milgram, Browning argued that the men of the battalion killed out of obedience to authority and peer pressure, not blood-lust or hatred.	The general implication of the book is that when placed in a cohesive group setting, most people will obey commands given by an authority-figure seen as legitimate, even if they find them morally reprehensible— a hypothesis studied in the Milgram Experiment. 
noLabel	Something that sustained this scepticism was the fact that Prodesis focussed extensively on the demographic aspects of "The Chiapas Problem", and hardly referred to the socio-political history of the area where Prodesis was implemented.	By blaming the Chiapas conflict on overpopulation in a vulnerable environment, but avoiding political issues connecting to the EZLN, the San Andrés Accords, and the diluted Cocopa law of 2001, many felt these core issues were not being taken seriously by the EC intervention. 
noLabel	McNamara claimed that he wanted to leave a written record for historians, but kept the study secret from the rest of the Johnson administration.	Neither President Lyndon Johnson nor Secretary of State Dean Rusk knew about the study until its publication; they believed McNamara might have planned to give the work to his friend Robert F. Kennedy, who sought the Democratic presidential nomination in 1968 . 
noLabel	Excluding Slovenes under Italian rule, between 20,000 and 25,000 thousand Slovenes were killed by Nazis or fascists (counting only civilian victims) .	The overall number of Slovene civilians killed by the Nazis, Italian Fascists and their allies is estimated at around 33,000 (this number does not include killed prisoners of war) .
noLabel	Fear of communist agitation was used as justification for the Enabling Act of 1933, the law which gave Hitler his original dictatorial powers.	Hermann Göring later testified at the Nuremberg Trials that the Nazis' willingness to repress German communists prompted President Paul von Hindenburg and the German elite to cooperate with the Nazis.
noLabel	The contemporary British political philosopher Martin Cohen has offered the more historically telling example of Biblical injunctions in favour of torture and slavery as evidence of how religious injunctions follow political and social customs, rather than vice versa, but also noted that the same tendency seems to be true of supposedly dispassionate and objective philosophers .	Cohen extends this argument in more detail in Political Philosophy from Plato to Mao, where he argues that the Qur'an played a role in perpetuating social codes from the early 7th century despite changes in secular society .
noLabel	By binding to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, nicotine increases the levels of several neurotransmitters - acting as a sort of "volume control".	It is thought that increased levels of dopamine in the reward circuits of the brain are responsible for the apparent euphoria and relaxation, and addiction caused by nicotine consumption.
noLabel	In June 2011 the Cambodian Center for Human Rights released a report "Internet Censorship: the ongoing crackdown on freedom of expression in Cambodia" .	In it the group warned of a “recent trend toward Internet censorship and the grave implications for freedom of expression in Cambodia .
noLabel	However, subsequent rulings - Edwards v. South Carolina, Brown v. Louisiana, Cox v. Louisiana, and Adderley v. Florida - found that picketing is afforded less protection than pure speech due to the physical externalities it creates.	Regulations on demonstrations may affect the time, place, and manner of those demonstrations, but may not discriminate based on the content of the demonstration. 
noLabel	Most economists, including Nobel prize winners Milton Friedman and Paul Krugman, believe that free trade helps workers in developing countries, even though they are not subject to the stringent health and labour standards of developed countries.	This is because "the growth of manufacturing &mdash; and of the myriad other jobs that the new export sector creates &mdash; has a ripple effect throughout the economy" that creates competition among producers, lifting wages and living conditions .
noLabel	The aim of the study is to compare how pilot REDD+ projects are working at national and subnational levels, and share lessons learned from these comparisons for the benefit of everyone involved in designing and implementing REDD+ projects.	Essentially, by providing policy makers and communities with this information, the project aims to ensure implementation of REDD+ is as effective, cost-efficient and equitable as possible — and ultimately reduces carbon emissions, deforestation and forest degradation across the world, while producing co-benefits like poverty alleviation and biodiversity conservation. 
noLabel	In the U.S., financial assistance for food purchasing for low- and no-income people is provided through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), also known as the Food Stamp Program .	This is a federal aid program is administered by the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, but benefits are distributed by the individual U.S. states.
noLabel	Others disagree, believing that the copyright system, arising from provisions in the U.S. Constitution, has made and continues to make a valuable even essential contribution to the creation and dissemination of works.	They also point out the social dangers inherent in the view that each individual is entitled to judge the "moral authority" of laws and to observe them or not according to individual judgments.
noLabel	On 14 July 2004 a mother appealed to the Missouri Supreme Court to prevent the circumcision of her son after a county court and the Court of Appeals had denied her a writ of prohibition .	However, in early August 2004, before the Supreme Court had given its ruling, the father, who had custody of the boy, had him circumcised . 
noLabel	The exterior of the tamper was lined with sheets of lead and polyethylene foam, which formed a radiation channel to conduct X-rays from the primary to secondary.	(The function of the X-rays was to hydrodynamically compress the secondary, increasing the density and temperature of the deuterium to the level needed to sustain a thermonuclear reaction, and compress the sparkplug to supercriticality ignition.)
noLabel	Using input from such diverse groups as the Iowa Department of Natural Resources, the Nature Conservancy, Iowa State University, the U.S.	Fish and Wildlife Service, the Iowa Natural Heritage Foundation, and the Iowa Chapter of the Sierra Club, MidAmerican created a statewide map of areas in the proposed region that contained specific bird populations or habitats.
noLabel	The oldest continuing school voucher programs existing today in the United States are the Town Tuitioning programs in Vermont and Maine, beginning in 1869 and 1873 respectively.	Because some towns in these states operate neither local high schools nor elementary schools, students in these towns "are eligible for a voucher to attend [either] public schools in other towns or non-religious private schools.
noLabel	Yes, says Dr Mario Zorzoli, Union Cycliste Internationale, doctor and health managerCycling's governing body, the UCI, does indeed take this issue seriously; seriously enough to tackle banned drug use on three fronts, which are interconnected: prevention, control and repression, and anticipation.The rest of the cycling family contribute: the athletes pay part of their prize money into the anti-doping budget, while race organisers cover most of the vast costs of carrying out over 5,000 drug tests per year on international races.	At the UCI, we can be proud to have led the way with measures which other sports adopted and which are now seen as the norm.
noLabel	It remains at the discretion of the CLO to make a decision to award, deny or revoke a gun ownership license based on the reason(s) given.	However, most importantly, anyone seeking to hold a gun license must pass the most stringent of background checks that probes into their past and present criminal, mental health and well as domestic violence records.
noLabel	After 1997, there was a reduction in the use of closure policy by Israel, which led to an employment growth and an expansion of the West Bank and Gaza economy .	After the signing of the Wye River Memorandum, a new donors' conference was convened, and over $2 billion was pledged to the PNA for 1999–2003 .
noLabel	However, in 2004 the Liberals lost seats in Parliament, going from 172 of 301 Parliamentary seats to 135 of 308, and from 40.9% to 36.7% in the popular vote.	The Canadian Alliance, which did well in western Canada in the 2000 election, but was unable to make significant inroads in the East, merged with the Progressive Conservative Party to form the Conservative Party of Canada in late 2003. 
noLabel	True education begins only when the moral and intellectual culture acquired by man has become complex and plays too important a part in the whole of the common life to leave its transmission from one generation to the next to the hazards of circumstance.	Hence, the elders feel the need to intervene, to bring about themselves the transmission of culture by epitomizing their experiences and deliberately passing on ideas, sentiments, and knowledge from their minds to those of the young. 
noLabel	Many unions raise the productivity of their workers, and some even raise it enough to make up for wage increases .	That some unions fail to match wage increases with improved productivity is at worst an argument against those specific unions, and not against unionization in general. 
noLabel	A 2003 survey of residents living around Scotland's 10 existing wind farms found high levels of community acceptance and strong support for wind power, with much support from those who lived closest to the wind farms.	The results of this survey support those of an earlier Scottish Executive survey 'Public attitudes to the Environment in Scotland 2002', which found that the Scottish public would prefer the majority of their electricity to come from renewables, and which rated wind power as the cleanest source of renewable energy . 
noLabel	The term first-person shooter (FPS) describes a video game genre where players participate in weapon-based combat all in the first person, or from the perspective of their character.	One of the more notable features of FPS games is its compatibility for networked, then later online, multiplayer gaming, where players could bring their skills to a national and then later a global arena. 
noLabel	Amnesty International reported that in 2009 hundreds of Palestinians were detained and held incommunicado for extended periods of time by Israel.	While most were later released without charge, hundreds were tried before military courts whose procedures often failed to meet international standards for fair trial.
noLabel	To complement these new sources of carbohydrates, highly organized net fishing of rivers, lakes and ocean shores in these areas brought in great volumes of essential protein.	Collectively, these new methods of farming and fishing inaugurated a human population boom that dwarfed all previous expansions and continues today. 
noLabel	(2003) note that "people who have studied linguistics to professional levels [..] have particular knowledge which is not available to either ordinary speakers or specialists in other disciplines".	Likewise Dikker and Verrips (2004) conclude that native speakers who lack any training in linguistics are not able to formulate reliable conclusions regarding the origin of other speakers of their language.
noLabel	As an ideology, racism existed during the 19th century as "scientific racism", which attempted to provide a racial classification of humanity .	Although such racist ideologies have been widely discredited after World War II and the Holocaust, racism and racial discrimination have remained widespread around the world.
noLabel	This poses a particular problem for women in that these extra hours of domestic care work translate into a difficult balance for women between market work and domestic work .	In the world’s history, women have not been given many choices other than care work as the patriarchal systems use their physical force, property rights, and the cultural norms to force women to take over specializations that do not interest the male population. 
noLabel	While this port was technologically inferior to the better-looking SNES port, it resembled the arcade version more faithfully in actual gameplay.	It also featured the authentic soundtrack as redbook audio, taken right from the arcade version, but some of the tracks play on the incorrect arenas, (such as Courtyard playing The Pit's theme).
noLabel	Nozick argued against equality of opportunity on the grounds that it violates the rights of property, since the equal opportunity maxim interferes with an owner's right to do what he or she pleases with a property .	Property rights were a major component of the philosophy of John Locke, and are sometimes referred to as Lockean rights .
noLabel	Agnosticism is the view that the truth value of certain claims—especially claims about the existence of any deity, but also other religious and metaphysical claims—is unknown or unknowable .	Agnosticism as a broad umbrella term does not define one's belief or disbelief in gods, agnostics may still identify themselves as theists or atheists .
noLabel	In mid-2011, Adbusters Foundation proposed a peaceful occupation of Wall Street to protest corporate influence on democracy, a growing disparity in wealth, and the absence of legal repercussions behind the recent global financial crisis .	They sought to combine the symbolic location of the 2011 protests in Tahrir Square with the consensus decision making of the 2011 Spanish protests .
noLabel	A longitudinal study in 1996 of over 4000 women in the United States followed for 3 years found that the rape-related pregnancy rate was 5.0% among victims aged 12–45 years.	Applying that rate to rapes committed in the United States would indicate that there are over 32,000 pregnancies in the United States as a result of rape each year .
noLabel	On 19 August 2011 the Greek Minister of Finance, Evangelos Venizelos, said that new austerity measures "should not be necessary" .	On 20 August 2011 it was revealed that the government's economic measures were still out of track; government revenue went down by €1.9&nbsp;billion while spending went up by €2.7&nbsp;billion . 
noLabel	Therefore We base Our words on the first principles of a human and Christian doctrine of marriage when We are obliged once more to declare that the direct interruption of the generative process already begun and, above all, all direct abortion, even for therapeutic reasons, are to be absolutely excluded as lawful means of regulating the number of children.	Equally to be condemned, as the magisterium of the Church has affirmed on many occasions, is direct sterilization, whether of the man or of the woman, whether permanent or temporary. 
noLabel	The DEA is also criticized for focusing on the operations from which it can seize the most money, namely the organized cross-border trafficking of heroin and cocaine.	Some individuals contemplating the nature of the DEA's charter advise that, based on order of popularity, the DEA should be most focused on marijuana.
noLabel	A large-scale study assessing penis size in thousands of 17–19 year old males found no difference in average penis size between 17 year olds and 19 year olds.	From this, it can be concluded that penile growth is typically complete not later than age 17, and possibly earlier .
noLabel	As early as 1922, leaders of the Hisabetsu Buraku organized a movement, the "Levelers Association of Japan" (Suiheisha), to advance their rights.	The Declaration of the Suiheisha encouraged the burakumin to unite in resistance to discrimination, and sought to frame a positive identity for the victims of discrimination, insisting that the time had come to be "proud of being eta. 
noLabel	Although Nixon coined the term "War on Drugs" in 1971, the policies that his administration implemented as part of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970 were a continuation of drug prohibition policies in the U.S., which started in 1914 .	Less well known today is that the Nixon Administration also repealed the federal 2-10 year mandatory minimum sentences for possession of marijuana and started federal demand reduction programs and drug treatment programs.
noLabel	The severity of the somewhat heavier burden that may be placed on a limited number of persons—e.g., elderly persons born out-of-state, who may have difficulty obtaining a birth certificate—is mitigated by the fact that eligible voters without photo identification may cast provisional ballots that will be counted if they execute the required affidavit at the circuit court clerk’s office.	Even assuming that the burden may not be justified as to a few voters, that conclusion is by no means sufficient to establish petitioners’ right to the relief they seek."
noLabel	Discussion about potential negative consequences, such as experiencing guilt or feeling used by one's partner, may lead some adolescents to delay the onset of sexual behavior until they feel more sure of the strength of their relationship with a partner and more comfortable with the idea of becoming sexually active.	Identification of common negative social and emotional consequences of having sex may also be useful in screening for adolescents at risk of experiencing more-serious adverse outcomes after having sex .
noLabel	At the height of the strikes, nearly 30,000,000 working days were lost in Britain during 1979, but that had fallen dramatically to some 5,000,000 during 1981 as a result of the Thatcher government's union reform policies.	The number of working days lost in the country due to strikes rose sharply to more than 25,000,000 in 1984, though most of these were miners on strike, and from then on the number of working days lost in Britain due to strikes remained in the low millions . 
noLabel	“In 1987, lung cancer surpassed breast cancer to become the leading cause of cancer death among U.S. women.”  Smoking now accounts for 80% of lung cancer deaths specifically among women.	Although, there has been a more pronounced campaign to raise funds for breast cancer research and a possible cure, more women are dying from lung cancer.
noLabel	Ban Ki-Moon ordered a UN Headquarters Board of Inquiry led by Ian Martin to independently investigate the nine most serious attacks on UN personnel and property.	Israeli Government report says that while Israel viewed this inquiry as premature, pending the conclusion of its internal investigations, it cooperated fully with the Board, providing it with pertinent information . 
noLabel	Kramer's theory of Dimensional Accrual and Dissociation (DAD) utilizes concepts from several scholars, most notably Jean Gebser and Lewis Mumford, to synthesize an explanation of widely observed cultural expressions and differences along a Neo-Kantian manifold of spatial and temporal variance similar to the work of Edmund Husserl, Maurice Merleau-Ponty, J. T. Faser, Sigfried Giedion, James Gibson, Maurice Grosser, Edmund Carpenter, Edward T. Hall, Walter Ong, James Carey, Robert Levine, and others but with many updates and additions.	Most importantly, Kramer's DAD theory emphasizes how various cultures communicate in generalized terms from idolic to symbolic to signalic communication styles that helps explain intercultural differences that influence intercultural and inter-ethnic relations as well as acculturation processes.
noLabel	Hillscape initially reported receiving less than $20,000 in lobbying fees from Copeland Lowery and another client during the first half of 2005, according to disclosure reports filed in 2005.	Hillscape filed amended disclosure reports in February 2006, less than two months after the first Lewis-Lowery story appeared in newspapers, that showed the company was paid $80,000 by Copeland Lowery from January 1 to June 30, 2005, plus another $40,000 by a second client, itself a California-based lobbying firm . 
noLabel	Aside from the role of governments and the church, the history of copyright law is in essential ways also connected to the rise of capitalism and the attendant extension of commodity relations to the realm of creative human activities, such as literary and artistic production.	Similarly, different cultural attitudes, social organizations, economic models and legal frameworks are seen to account for why copyright emerged in Europe and not, for example, in Asia.
noLabel	The device was trillions of times more powerful per unit volume in comparison to the material in the sun's fusion core (about 25% of the sun's radius) and it would take about 10 million years for an equivalent volume of the sun's core to produce the same amount of energy as came from within the bomb's casing.	The TNT equivalent of the 50&nbsp;Mt test could be represented by a cube of TNT 312 metres on a side, approximately the height of the Eiffel Tower.
noLabel	Reform Judaism permits abortion, not only when the woman's life is at stake, but also when a pregnancy is "a result of rape or incest; when through genetic testing, it is determined that the child to be born will have a disease that will cause death or severe disability, and the parents believe that the impending birth will be an impossible situation for them," and for several other reasons .	More generally, the "Reform perspective on abortion can be described as follows: Abortion is an extremely difficult choice faced by a woman.
noLabel	Contact with oil makes latex condoms more likely to break or slip off due to loss of elasticity caused by the oils.	 Additionally, latex allergy precludes use of latex condoms and is one of the principal reasons for the use of other materials.
noLabel	Terms used in other jurisdictions include hundi, hawala, poe kuan, informal funds transfer, underground banking, parallel banking, informal funds transfer and money/value transfer.	The remittance system pre-dates modern banking and arose in various locations including China, southeast Asia and the Middle East where there was a need to move value without taking the risk of physically moving money itself.
noLabel	The labor force participation rate explains how an increase in the unemployment rate can occur simultaneously with an increase in employment.	If a large amount of new workers enter the labor force but only a small fraction become employed, then the increase in the number of unemployed workers can outpace the growth in employment .
noLabel	There have been six non-imperial families who have controlled Japanese emperors: the Soga (530s–645), the Fujiwara (850s–1070), the Taira (for a relatively short period), the Minamoto (and Kamakura bakufu) (1192–1333), the Ashikaga (1336–1565) and the Tokugawa (1603–1867).	However, every shogun from the Minamoto, Ashikaga and Tokugawa families had to be officially recognized by the emperors, who were still the source of sovereignty, although they could not exercise their powers independently from the Shogunate.
noLabel	In his advocacy of democracy, Dewey considered two fundamental elements&mdash;schools and civil society&mdash;as being major topics needing attention and reconstruction to encourage experimental intelligence and plurality.	Dewey asserted that complete democracy was to be obtained not just by extending voting rights but also by ensuring that there exists a fully formed public opinion, accomplished by effective communication among citizens, experts, and politicians, with the latter being accountable for the policies they adopt.
noLabel	Though a given region can house too many or too few people, he considered the latter possibility to be the greater evil.	Kautilya favored the remarriage of widows (which at the time was forbidden in India), opposed taxes that encourage emigration, and believed that asceticism should be restricted to the aged . 
noLabel	Republican leaders in Washington claimed there were enough disputed votes to change the outcome of the election and filed a lawsuit in Chelan County Superior Court in order to avoid having the case heard in the more liberal Western Washington counties .	King County's election department (the greater Seattle area) was also targeted for how they handled the ballots, including untracked use of a "ballot-on-demand" printing machine.
noLabel	On the unveiling of the plan, critics were quick to remark on the negative consequences that changes in the budget of the magnitude being proposed could have in the short term on the economy.	Kevin Hassett, economic policy director of the American Enterprise Institute and chief economic adviser to John McCain's 2000 presidential campaign, praised Paul's aim of reducing the size of government, but worried that, "At the scale he’s talking about, it’s unlikely you could have an immediate reduction in government without hurtling the economy into recession."
noLabel	For a period of minutes to days after a concussion, the brain is especially vulnerable to changes in intracranial pressure, blood flow, and anoxia .	According to studies performed on animals (which are not always applicable to humans), large numbers of neurons can die during this period in response to slight, normally innocuous changes in blood flow . 
noLabel	Durkheim, however, uses this point in the service of an argument for social facts to be communicated through the authority of teachers in traditional formal schools rather than through the ‘natural’ social relations of democratic life.	In fact, he continues his argument on the role of punishment, even the history of corporeal punishment, by demonstrating that it is the product of modern mass-education systems. 
noLabel	[Richardson footnote] The use of web tools such as wikis, blogs, and social networking sites is tied to increasing overall effectiveness of digital education in schools.	Examples exist of teacher and student success stories where learning has transcended the classroom and has reached far out into society . 
noLabel	However Lockes ideas evolved primarily around the concept of a mans right to seek salvation for his or her soul, and was thus primarily concerned with theological matters.	Locke did not support a universal toleration and freedom of speech, some groups, like atheists, should not be allowed according to his ideas . 
noLabel	A retinal burn resulting in permanent damage from scarring is also caused by the concentration of direct thermal energy on the retina by the lens.	It will occur only when the fireball is actually in the individual's field of vision and would be a relatively uncommon injury.
noLabel	Accommodationists, on the other hand, read the Establishment Clause as prohibiting the Congress or any state from declaring an official religion or preferring one to another, but hold that laws do not have to be shorn of morality and history to be declared constitutional .	As a result, they apply the Lemon Test only selectively, holding Justice Douglas' statement in Zorach v. Clauson, "[w]e are a religious people whose institutions presuppose a Supreme Being" . 
noLabel	This might not be obvious and the Immigration Service might be called upon at that stage to interview the person to establish their status.	Assuming that it could be established, then the court needed to be informed of the fact that the person was liable to be deported within a statutory time limit.
noLabel	In the Roman Catholic tradition, there are a number of different orders of nuns each with its own charism or special character.	Some have ancient origins, as with Benedictine sisters, whose monastic way of life developed from the 6th Century Rule of Saint Benedict.
noLabel	Nevertheless, Europe’s performance in addressing the refugee crisis that resulted from the US-led invasion of Iraq has been widely criticized by the UNHCR, which denounced the small number of asylum applicants accepted by the EU.	By the end of 2008, only 10 per cent of the Iraqi refugees resettled by the UNHCR were hosted by EU countries, mainly Sweden and the Netherlands .The UK —a country that not only had historically hosted a large number of Iraqi refugees but one that had also participated in the invasion of Iraq— granted refugee status or complementary protection to only 8.7 percent of the Iraqi asylum-seekers in 2005, a significant decrease if considered that from 1997 to 2001 that rate averaged 44 percent .
noLabel	Alaska, Arizona and Vermont do not require any license in order to carry concealed weapons in public places, but there are laws in these states prohibiting concealed weapons in certain places (e.g., in Alaska it is not permitted to carry a weapon, concealed or otherwise, into a bar or tavern) .	The spread of concealed carry laws since 1986 in those states that tend to be in support of gun rights has led to the widespread, legally permitted, carrying of concealed handguns by civilians in many parts of the United States. 
noLabel	Such legislation generally follows similar language, effectively banning the desecration of the national flag in protests, or other acts of desecration.	So far these bans have been struck down by the Supreme Court, which in 1989 described them as contrary to the principle of free speech.
noLabel	On March 1, 2011, Palin told National Organization for Marriage Chairman Maggie Gallagher that she opposed the Obama administration's refusal to continue defending the Defense of Marriage Act: "I have always believed that marriage is between one man and one woman.	Like the majority of Americans, I support the Defense of Marriage Act and find it appalling that the Obama administration decided not to defend this federal law which was enacted with broad bipartisan support and signed into law by a Democrat president.
noLabel	Records of Classical boxing activity disappeared after the fall of the Western Roman Empire when the wearing of weapons became common once again and interest in fighting with the fists waned.	However, there are detailed records of various fist-fighting sports that were maintained in different cities and provinces of Italy between the 12th and 17th centuries.
noLabel	Vermont, Arizona, and Alaska do not require permits to carry concealed weapons, although Alaska retains a shall-issue permit process for reciprocity purposes with other states.	Similarly, Arizona retains a shall-issue permit process, both for reciprocity purposes and because permit holders are allowed to carry concealed handguns in certain places (such as bars and restaurants that serve alcohol) that non-permit holders are not . 
noLabel	"There is a widespread belief that teens engage in nonvaginal forms of sex, especially oral sex, as a way to be sexually active while still claiming that technically, they are virgins," says study author Laura Lindberg.	However, Dennie Hughes cautions, "We need to move away from the idea that girls who engage in oral sex but not intercourse are 'technical' virgins -- that you're not having sex because no one's penetrating you.
noLabel	First, he writes that a person is not the same as his brain, and he points to split-brain experiments that he has discussed in his previous work, thus he argues that a simple entity like our self can control our brain, which is a very complex thing.	Second, he argues that simplicity is a quality that is intrinsic to a hypothesis, and not related to its empirical consequences . 
noLabel	This concept of “non-refoulement”, or expressly prohibiting the expulsion of a refugee into an area where she or he might be again subjected to persecution, is well documented in the 1951 Convention – but not explicitly stated in Russian law.	Russia's answer to the fundamental principle of non-refoulement is to offer temporary asylum status, subject to revocation, to those who might again be subject to persecution. 
noLabel	The law was criticized by some as ineffectual, with community health sciences professor Michael Siegel stating that it "creates the appearance of regulation without allowing actual regulation."	Critics argue that without the authority to eliminate nicotine completely, the reduction of nicotine levels in cigarettes may result in compensation by existing smokers, increasing their cigarette smoke inhalation to consume a level of nicotine which will satisfy their cravings.
noLabel	That of Egypt was abolished in 1953, after the revolution of 1952, which caused King Farouk I to abdicate in favour of his minor son Fuad II.	The monarchy of Tunisia ended in 1957 when Muhammad VIII al-Amin lost his throne and that of Iraq when King Faisal II was killed and a republic proclaimed.
noLabel	Each person on Earth now requires a third more land to supply his or her needs than the planet can supply."	It faults a failure to "respond to or recognise the magnitude of the challenges facing the people and the environment of the planet.. 'The systematic destruction of the Earth's natural and nature-based resources has reached a point where the economic viability of economies is being challenged – and where the bill we hand to our children may prove impossible to pay'..
noLabel	China’s traditional system of education has sought to make students accept fixed and ossified content.” And “In the classroom, Chinese professors are the laws and authorities; Students in China show great respect to their teachers in general.” On another hand, in United States of America education “American students treat college professors as equals.” Also “American students’ are encouraged to debate topics.	The free open discussion on various topics is due to the academic freedom which most American colleges and universities enjoy.” Discussion above gives us an overall idea about the differences between China and the United States on education.
noLabel	By law, the result of the election can be contested by any individual who files suit at any time up to 10 days after any inauguration, thereby making January 22 the latest date to have filed any suit.	Two private citizens filed challenges to the election on January 6: Daniel P. Stevens of Fall City and Arthur Coday, Jr. of Shoreline.
noLabel	Through its successful Russian Alsos and the atomic spy ring, the Soviet Union's espionage ultimately led them to conduct the first test of its implosion-type nuclear device, codename First Lightning on 29 August 1949, at Semipalatinsk, Kazakh SSR.	With the success of this test, the Soviet Union became the second nation after the United States to have successfully developed and conducted nuclear tests.
noLabel	They are simply an innovation in a decades-long campaign to deny those at the margins ΓÇô blacks, the poor, the disabled ΓÇô the right to representation.As Republicans' economic agenda pushes us further toward a winner-take-all society, their state-level legislative voter ID agenda shows an impulse to eliminate other players entirely.As personal and private as voting is, the forces at work to deny the franchise have been subsumed by larger, technocratic forces.	The biggest threat to voting rights posed by activists such as "True the Vote" ΓÇô a conservative outfit claiming to ferret out voter fraud ΓÇô is not intimidation at the polls or requiring voter ID: it's computer-driven, human-assisted purges of voter rolls, often brought about by private citizens "alerting" local governments to possible fraud, but also instigated by Republican officials.Called "caging", this technique often relies on using returned mail as proof that the voter has registered illegally (under a false address) ΓÇô no matter if the voter has moved but retains residency in the state.
noLabel	These arguments are probability judgments since they rest on the claim that, even after careful reflection, one can see no good reason for God’s permission of evil.	The inference from this claim to the general statement that there exists unnecessary evil is inductive in nature and it is this inductive step that sets the evidential argument apart from the logical argument . 
noLabel	Almost all of Gaza's liquid fuel and about half of its electricity are supplied by Israel, while Gaza's sole power plant runs on crude diesel supplied by Israel.	In late October 2007, in response to persistent rocket fire on Southern Israel, the Security Cabinet of Israel decided to cut diesel exports to Gaza by 15% and gasoline exports by 10%, and to create targeted electrical outages for 15 minutes after a rocket attack.
noLabel	Powercorp in Australia have been developing applications using wind turbines, flywheels and low load diesel (LLD) technology to maximise the wind input to small grids.	A system installed in Coral Bay, Western Australia, uses wind turbines coupled with a flywheel based control system and LLDs to achieve better than 60% wind contribution to the town grid. 
noLabel	Examples of genres within this category are hidden object, match three, time management, tetris or many of the tower defense style games.	Casual games are generally sold through online retailers such as PopCap, Zylom, Vans Video Games and GameHouse or provided for free play through web portals such as Newgrounds or AddictingGames. 
noLabel	Some economists, like Milton Friedman and other Laissez-faire economists have argued that there is a direct relationship between economic growth and economic freedom, and studies suggest this is true .	Continuous debates among scholars on methodological issues in empirical studies of the connection between economic freedom and economic growth still try to find out what is the relationship, if any .
noLabel	J. Brent Walker, Executive Director of the Baptist Joint Committee, responded to Hamburger's claims noting; "The fact that the separation of church and state has been supported by some who exhibited an anti-Catholic animus or a secularist bent does not impugn the validity of the principle.	Champions of religious liberty have argued for the separation of church and state for reasons having nothing to do with anti-Catholicism or desire for a secular culture.
noLabel	James I and Charles I of England tried to import this principle; fears that Charles I was attempting to establish absolutist government along European lines were a major cause of the English Civil War.	By the 19th century, the Divine Right was regarded as an obsolete theory in most countries in the Western world, except in Russia where it was still given credence as the official justification for the Tsar's power. 
noLabel	Many conservative critics charged that the bill on re-introducing the draft was simply a political maneuver by Rangel aimed to underscore the unpopularity of the Iraq War.	The debate was largely over soon after the incoming Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi indicated that she was not interested in advancing the bill to reintroduce the draft .
noLabel	On February 7, 1962, United States President John F. Kennedy imposed a trade embargo on Cuba to sanction Fidel Castro's communist government.	According to Pierre Salinger, then Kennedy's press secretary, the president ordered him on the evening of February 6 to obtain 1,200 H. Upmann brand petit corona Cuban cigars; upon Salinger's arrival with the cigars the following morning, Kennedy signed the executive order which put the embargo into effect .
noLabel	In 2006, McCain voted to increase the Pell Grant scholarship to a maximum of $4,500, increases future math and science teacher student loan forgiveness to $23,000, and restore education program cuts slated for vocational education, adult education, GEAR UP, and TRIO .	On July 29, 2007, McCain voted against a bill increasing federal student loans and Pell Grants and expanding eligibility for financial aid .
noLabel	Pierson (2006) has acknowledged that, like poverty, welfare creates behavioral ramifications, and that studies differ regarding whether welfare empowers individuals or breeds dependence on government aid.	Pierson also acknowledges that the evidence of the behavioral effects of welfare varies across countries (such as Norway, France, Denmark, and Germany to name a few), because different countries implement different systems of welfare .
noLabel	All players are being tested anonymously this season, and if more than 5 percent test positive, mandatory random testing will go into effect for the next two seasons.	Players would face a graduated scale of penalties if mandatory random testing went into effect, with first-time offenders being placed in a treatment program.
noLabel	Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, influenced by the work of Feuerbach, argued that belief in God and religion are social functions, used by those in power to oppress the working class.	According to Mikhail Bakunin, "the idea of God implies the abdication of human reason and justice; it is the most decisive negation of human liberty, and necessarily ends in the enslavement of mankind, in theory and practice."
noLabel	Plato acknowledged that extending civil and political rights to women would substantively alter the nature of the household and the state .	Aristotle, who had been taught by Plato, denied that women were slaves or subject to property, arguing that "nature has distinguished between the female and the slave", but he considered wives to be "bought".
noLabel	With the exception of more modern religions, such as Raëlism, Mormonism, Scientology, and the Bahá'í Faith, most religions were formulated at a time when the origin of life, the workings of the body, and the nature of the stars and planets were poorly understood .	Religious systems attempted to address significant personal emotional issues, and tried to explain a frightening existence, usually through a dramatic narrative outlining how the world and their community came to be. 
noLabel	" Although he pleaded guilty to the charge, Irving said he had been "mistaken", and had changed his opinions on the Holocaust.	"I said that then, based on my knowledge at the time, but by 1991 when I came across the Eichmann papers, I wasn't saying that anymore and I wouldn't say that now.
noLabel	Researchers, such as Mary Martin and James Gentry, have found that teen advertising negatively impacts teenagers’ self-esteem by setting unrealistic expectations for them about their physical appearances through the use of idealized models .	Other researchers, such as Heidi Posavac, acknowledge this, but believe that this only applies to teenagers who already possess low self-esteem or a poor self-images . 
noLabel	As they evolved away from the use of light guns, the player came to be represented by an on-screen avatar, usually someone on the bottom of the screen, who could move and avoid enemy attacks while returning fire.	These sorts of shooters almost always utilize horizontal scrolling to the right to indicate level progression, with enemies appearing in waves from predestined locations in the background or from the sides. 
noLabel	Communists may consider some reforms within capitalism to be tactically important—a civil rights struggle, for instance, may help to overcome divisions that hurt and weaken all workers.	In the most extreme cases of "reformism", a party may actively work to curb more "revolutionary" activity, whether out of momentary caution or genuine commitment to other methods—during the 1968 General Strike of France, Marxist and Communist Parties urged workers to return to their jobs, and express their dissatisfaction with the power of voting.
noLabel	In 2010, the International Resource Panel of the United Nations Environment Programme published a report assessing the environmental impacts of consumption and production.	The study found that agriculture and food consumption are two of the most important drivers of environmental pressures, particularly habitat change, climate change, water use and toxic emissions . 
noLabel	The general consensus view is that lobbying generally works overall in achieving sought-after results for clients, particularly since it has become so prevalent with substantial and growing budgets, although there are dissenting views.	A study by the investment-research firm Strategas which was cited in The Economist and the Washington Post compared the 50 firms that spent the most on lobbying relative to their assets, and compared their financial performance against that of the S&P 500 in the stock market; the study concluded that spending on lobbying was a "spectacular investment" yielding "blistering" returns comparable to a high-flying hedge fund, even despite the financial downturn of the past few years .
noLabel	Even so, smoking of both tobacco and cannabis can be a social activity which serves as a reinforcement of social structures and is part of the cultural rituals of many and diverse social and ethnic groups.	Many smokers begin smoking in social settings and the offering and sharing of a cigarette is often an important rite of initiation or simply a good excuse to start a conversation with strangers in many settings; in bars, night clubs, at work or on the street.
noLabel	From 1981 to 1997, the United States Department of Agriculture discriminated against tens of thousands of African American farmers, denying loans provided to white farmers in similar circumstances.	The discrimination was the subject of the Pigford v. Glickman lawsuit brought by members of the National Black Farmers Association, which resulted in two settlement agreements of $1.25 billion in 1999 and of $1.15 billion in 2009 . 
noLabel	In August 2010, the Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Persons Making the Disclosures Bill, 2010 was introduced into the Parliament of India, Lok Sabha .	The Bill was approved by the cabinet in June,2011.The Public Interest Disclosure and Protection of Persons Making the Disclosures Bill, 2010 was renamed as The Whistleblowers' Protection Bill, 2011 by the Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice .
noLabel	The first reason is that such groups may extend group identity and cooperation beyond the limited of family and kinship out of reciprocal altruism, in the belief that helping other individuals will produce an advantageous situation for both the sender and receiver of that help, this tendency has been noted in studies by Robert Axelrod that are summarized in his book The Evolution of Cooperation (1984) .	The second reason is that such groups may be formed as a means of defense to insure survival, fears by one group of a hostile group threatening them can increase solidarity amongst that group, R. Paul Shaw and Yuwa Wong in their book The Genetic Seeds of Warfare (1989) identify this as the foundation of xenophobia that they identify as originating in hunter gatherer societies .
noLabel	There is a 4-level decrease available for a threat involving a "single instance evidencing little or no deliberation", which would usually apply to spur-of-the-moment verbal threats.	The maximum penalty for threatening a United States judge or a Federal law enforcement officer is 10 years imprisonment &mdash; double the maximum penalty for threatening the President .
noLabel	Since 1992 (and as recently as 2009), the Congressional Research Service has stated that the ATF tracing system (eTrace) was not designed to collect statistics .	Nevertheless, on February 2008, William Hoover, Assistant Director for Field Operations of ATF, testified before Congress that over 90% of the firearms that have either been recovered in, or interdicted in transport to Mexico originated from various sources within the United States .
noLabel	In recent decades the NEA has increased its visibility in party politics, endorsing more Democratic Party candidates and contributing funds and other assistance to political campaigns.	The NEA asserts itself as "non-partisan", but critics point out that the NEA has endorsed and provided support for every Democratic Party presidential nominee from Jimmy Carter to Barack Obama and has never endorsed any Republican or third party candidate for the presidency .
noLabel	The amount of rotational force is thought to be the major type of force to cause concussion and the largest component in its severity .	Studies with athletes have shown that the amount of force and the location of the impact are not necessarily correlated to the severity of the concussion or its symptoms, and have called into question the threshold for concussion previously thought to exist at around 70–75g . 
noLabel	Wilson v United Kingdom [2002]  is a UK labour law and European labour law case concerning discrimination by employers against their workers who join and take action through trade unions.	After a long series of appeals through the UK court system, the European Court of Human Rights held that ECHR article 11 protects the fundamental right of people to join a trade union, engage in union related activities and take action as a last resort to protect their interests.
noLabel	One commission member, American Jesuit theologian John Ford (with the assistance of American theologian Germain Grisez) drafted a minority report working paper that was signed by Ford and three other theologian priests on the commission, stating that the Church should not and could not change its long-standing teaching .	Even though intended for the Pope only, the commission's report and two working papers (the minority report and the majority's rebuttal to it) were leaked to the press in 1967, raising public expectations of liberalization . 
noLabel	"..The young men in the eastern Cape belong to the Xhosa ethnic group for whom circumcision is considered part of the passage into manhood.. A law was recently introduced requiring initiation schools to be licensed and only allowing circumcisions to be performed on youths aged 18 and older.	But Eastern Cape provincial Health Department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo told Reuters news agency that boys as young as 11 had died.
noLabel	In France, Germany, and other European countries, socialist parties and democrats played a prominent role in forming and building up trade unions, especially from the 1870s onwards.	This stood in contrast to the British experience, where moderate New Model Unions dominated the union movement from the mid-19th century and where trade unionism was stronger than the political labour movement until the formation and growth of the Labour Party in the early years of the 20th century. 
noLabel	Although polls show that many Catholics dissent from church teaching on contraception, there has nevertheless been a resurgence of support for it in certain quarters.	Roman Catholic lay writers such as Janet E. Smith, Scott and Kimberly Hahn, Christopher West and Mary Shivanandan have all written extensively in support of the teaching, and on the reasons behind it.
noLabel	The IVF/PGD technique is favored over the Ericsson method because of the stricter control of the offspring gender in the laboratory.	Since only embryos of the desired sex are transferred to the mother, IVF/PGD avoids the small likelihood present in the Ericsson method of an undesired sperm fertilizing the egg.
noLabel	The reservation system has been a matter of contention ever since the British occupied India and remains a point of conflict.	Many citizens who come from the upper classes find this policy of the government biased and oppose it, since they feel it takes away their rights to equality.
noLabel	The water-permeated thickness of the Ogallala Formation ranges from a few feet to more than 1000 feet (300 m) and is generally greater in the northern plains .	The depth of the water below the surface of the land ranges from almost 400 feet (122 m) in parts of the north to between 100 to 200 feet (30 to 61 m) throughout much of the south.
noLabel	The AIHRC published figures showing that executions had soared in the first seven months of 2010 to 197, from a total of 225 in all of 2009.	The victims were often persons who supported the Afghan government, or their family members, who may have come into contact with the U.S. or other international forces . 
noLabel	Over half of unintended pregnancies were to women not using contraceptives, most of the rest are due to inconsistent or incorrect use .	23% of sexually active young women in a 1996 Seventeen magazine poll admitted to having had unprotected sex with a partner who did not use a condom, while 70% of girls in a 1997 PARADE poll claimed it was embarrassing to buy birth control or request information from a doctor . 
noLabel	In his book, The Deadliest Lies, Abraham Foxman referred to the notion that the pro-Israel lobby is trying to censor criticism of Israel as a "canard.	" Foxman writes that the Jewish community is capable of telling the difference between legitimate criticism of Israel "and the demonization, delegitimization, and double standards employed against Israel that is either inherently anti-Semitic or generates an environment of anti-Semitism.
noLabel	Also in 2009, the three different classifications of age groups among children, being 0-5, 6-11 and 12-17, were roughly equal .	As reported in 2009 by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, 57% percent of all juveniles are White, 15% Black, 1% American Indian, 5% Asian, and 22% Hispanic.
noLabel	In this view, the tendency of the philosophes in particular to apply rationality to every problem is considered the essential change .	Later critics of The Enlightenment, such as the Romantics of the 19th century, contended that its goals for rationality in human affairs were too ambitious to ever be achieved . 
noLabel	The private (capitalist) sector in the People's Republic of China has grown exponentially and thrived since its inception, despite having an authoritarian government.	Augusto Pinochet's rule in Chile led to economic growth by using authoritarian means to create a safe environment for investment and capitalism. 
noLabel	In May 2002 Deputy Chief Cabinet Secretary Shinzo Abe repeated the observation of Kishi that Article 9 did not preclude Japan from owning sufficiently small (strictly defensive) nuclear weapons, including ICBMs and atomic bombs.	In June of that year, Chief Cabinet Secretary Yasuo Fukuda, in an off-the-record talk with reporters (for which he later took responsibility), remarked further that "circumstances and public opinion could require Japan to possess nuclear weapons".
noLabel	Not until the 1990 NPT Review Conference did some states raise the possibility of making more use of (for example) provisions for "special inspections" in existing NPT Safeguards Agreements.	Special inspections can be undertaken at locations other than those where safeguards routinely apply, if there is reason to believe there may be undeclared material or activities. 
noLabel	The city has the tallest mud buildings in the world, with some of them over 30 metres (100 feet) high .	Shibam has been called "one of the oldest and best examples of urban planning based on the principle of vertical construction" or "Manhattan of the desert" . 
noLabel	While many shootings occur in the course of a mutual argument of passion, others occur where a partner or family member of a "romantic" or familial relationship, who is an ongoing victim of domestic physical abuse or sexual abuse, uses the force of a firearm in self-defense action against a perpetrator who also happens to be known to or related to the victim.	As a corollary, in such policy advertising campaigns, the comparison of "domestic" gun casualties is usually not accompanied by murder and assault prosecution numbers stemming from the shootings occurring in that context.
noLabel	Laïcité, a particular product of French history and philosophy, was formalized in the 1905 law providing for the separation of church and state, that is, the separation of religion from political power.	But the concept of removing religion to the private space as opposed to the public space of politics and the civil sphere is currently fiercely contested in France, driven, especially, by reactions to various manifestations of Islam, such as wearing the headscarf in schools. 
noLabel	Language socialization can be broadly defined as “an investigation of how language both presupposes and creates anew, social relations in cultural context” .	It is imperative that the speaker understands the grammar of a language, as well as how elements of language are socially situated in order to reach communicative competence.
noLabel	Sweden prohibits hate speech, and defines it as publicly making statements that threaten or express disrespect for an ethnic group or similar group regarding their race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, faith or sexual orientation .	The crime doesn't prohibit a pertinent and responsible debate (en saklig och vederhäftig diskussion), nor statements made in a completely private sphere .
noLabel	The Childcare Voucher Scheme is a UK government initiative aimed at helping UK working parents to benefit from tax efficiencies in order to save money on childcare.	The scheme is normally offered as a salary sacrifice scheme, which means that UK parents who are in the scheme are able to sacrifice part of their salary in order to obtain childcare vouchers (of an equal amount).
noLabel	At least one Palestinian witness told an Italian reporter that on many roofs of the tall buildings that were hit by Israeli bombs, including UN building, there were rocket-launchers or Hamas look-outs .	On January 27, the Shin Bet released details given by Hamas captives, including the militants' use of mosques for weapon caches and military training.
noLabel	The second, a full-scale nuclear war, could consist of large numbers of nuclear weapons used in an attack aimed at an entire country, including military, economic, and civilian targets.	Such an attack would almost certainly destroy the entire economic, social, and military infrastructure of the target nation, and would probably have a devastating effect on Earth's biosphere. 
noLabel	This unfavorable combination of demographics and per-capita rate increases is expected to drive both Social Security and Medicare into large deficits during the 21st century.	Unless these long-term fiscal imbalances are addressed by reforms to these programs, raising taxes or drastic cuts in discretionary programs, the federal government will at some point be unable to pay its obligations without significant risk to the value of the dollar (inflation) . 
noLabel	Iran states that "the failure of certain Nuclear- Weapon States to fulfill their international obligations continue to be a source of threat for the international community" .	Iran also states that "the only country that has ever used nuclear weapons still maintains a sizable arsenal of thousands of nuclear warheads" and calls for a stop to the transfer of technology to non-NPT states .
noLabel	Later analysis of the nuclear isotope fallout by Swedish scientist Lars-Erik De Geer led him to suggest a theory that indicates two explosions in the range of 50–200 tonnes of TNT equivalent deemed to have taken place in mid-April and around May 11, 2010 .	The South Korean and U.S. governments had earlier dismissed this possibility due to the lack of any seismic data indicating such tests .
noLabel	Anti-doping sample collection is consistent with the WADA IST and are conducted by doping control officers (DCOs), specifically trained and employed by USADA.	For tests in which blood is collected, USADA contracts with trained phlebotomist who work in conjunction with a USADA DCO . 
noLabel	In successive rounds of counting, the next preferred choice still available from each eliminated ballot is transferred to candidates not yet eliminated.	The least preferred option is eliminated in each round of counting until there is a majority winner, with all ballots being considered in every round of counting. 
noLabel	The Tsar Bomb detonated at 11:32 on October 30, 1961 over the Mityushikha Bay nuclear testing range (Sukhoy Nos Zone C), north of the Arctic Circle on Novaya Zemlya Island in the Arctic Sea.	The bomb was dropped from an altitude of ; it was designed to detonate at a height of over the land surface ( over sea level) by barometric sensors . 
noLabel	Heavy metals such as vanadium, nickel, lead, cobalt, mercury, chromium, cadmium, arsenic, selenium, copper, manganese, iron and zinc are naturally present in oil sands and may be concentrated by the extraction process .	The environmental impact caused by oil sand extraction is frequently criticized by environmental groups such as Greenpeace, Climate Reality Project, 350.org, MoveOn, League of Conservation Voters, Patagonia, Sierra Club, and Energy Action Coalition .
noLabel	Advertising is a form of communication used to encourage or persuade an audience (viewers, readers or listeners) to continue or take some new action.	Most commonly, the desired result is to drive consumer behavior with respect to a commercial offering, although political and ideological advertising is also common.
noLabel	On 2 January 2005, Time magazine quoted unnamed Vatican sources as saying that Ratzinger was a front runner to succeed John Paul II should the pope die or become too ill to continue as pope.	On the death of John Paul II, the Financial Times gave the odds of Ratzinger becoming pope as 7–1, the lead position, but close to his rivals on the liberal wing of the church.
noLabel	The legislature of territory does not receive its authority directly from the monarch, but it is delegated by the federal parliament.	Similarly, with city councils and other local governments in the Commonwealth, the idea of the Crown-in-the-Council is not used, as the authority of local governments is derived from a charter or act that can be unilaterally amended by a higher level of government. 
noLabel	In a study titled Food, Land, Population and the U.S. Economy, David Pimentel, professor of ecology and agriculture at Cornell University, and Mario Giampietro, senior researcher at the US National Research Institute on Food and Nutrition (INRAN), estimate the maximum U.S. population for a sustainable economy at 200 million.	And in order to achieve a sustainable economy and avert disaster, the United States would have to reduce its population by at least one-third, and world population would have to be reduced by two-thirds . 
noLabel	India is not a signatory to either the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) or the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT), but did accede to the Partial Test Ban Treaty in October 1963.	India is a member of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and four of its 17 nuclear reactors are subject to IAEA safeguards. 
noLabel	In 1991, the University of Miami Hurricanes and the University of Washington Huskies were considered the strongest teams in the nation.	Since the Huskies were locked into the Rose Bowl as the Pacific 10 Conference champion against Big Ten champion Michigan, they could not play Miami, who played in the Orange Bowl.
noLabel	Affiliate marketing was an invention by CDNow.com in 1994 and was excelled by Amazon.com when it launched its Affiliate Program, called Associate Program in 1996.	The online retailer used its program to generate low cost brand exposure and provided at the same time small websites a way to earn some supplemental income.
noLabel	Racial quotas in the United States began to be implemented with government approval after the Civil Rights Act of 1964, especially during the 1970s .	Richard Nixon's Labor Secretary George P. Schultz demanded that anti-black construction unions allow a certain number of black people into the unions .
noLabel	Steam assisted gravity drainage was developed in the 1980s by the Alberta Oil Sands Technology and Research Authority and fortuitously coincided with improvements in directional drilling technology that made it quick and inexpensive to do by the mid 1990s.	In SAGD, two horizontal wells are drilled in the oil sands, one at the bottom of the formation and another about 5 metres above it.
noLabel	But amidst this demographic shift, the GOP is a nearly exclusively white party, with whites accounting for over 90% of the delegates at this year's convention in Tampa.	The recent assault on a black CNN camerawoman by GOP convention attendees, and a recent poll showing zero percent black support for Mitt Romney, highlight the party's problem.The Jim Crow segregation laws denied black people their voting rights, told them who they could not marry and where they could not eat, sit or use the bathroom.
noLabel	Some, including Barack Obama and Hamid Karzai, raised concerns that the detailed logs had exposed the names of Afghan informants, thus endangering their lives .	Partially in response to this criticism, Wikileaks announced that it has sought the help of the Pentagon in reviewing a further 15,000 documents before releasing them.
noLabel	Without a standardized way of employing and measuring aggression using this task, there is no way of knowing whether the results reported are a valid measure of aggression, or were selected from among the possible alternatives simply because they produced positive findings where other alternatives did not.	Ferguson and Kilburn, in a paper in Journal of Pediatrics, have found that poorly standardized and validated measures of aggression tend to produce higher effects than well validated aggression measures. 
noLabel	Most recently, several events ordered by Nicolas Sarkozy, then-Interior Minister and current President of the Republic, have been criticized as forms of censorship (i.e.	the firing of the director of Paris Match — controlled by Hachette Filipacchi Médias, the world's largest magazine publisher, itself owned by Lagardère — because he had published photos of Cécilia Sarkozy with another man in New York).
noLabel	Although architects and local authorities intended the opposite, tower blocks quickly became, as Hanley sharply stated, 'slums in the sky' .	Due to demanding deadlines, complicated construction practices were rushed and many tower blocks experienced structural decay as a result – roofs leaked, concrete suffered spalling, steel corroded, and damp penetrated the buildings .
noLabel	By the end of 2009, in an attempt to cut smuggling tunnels, Egypt had begun to build an underground steel wall along its border with the Gaza Strip .	The other steps include restrictions on movement through the Rafah crossing and the presence in Egypt of persons considered close to Hamas, and the expulsion of relatives of Hamas figures studying in Egypt .
noLabel	Also, in calculating urban population, the 1982 census made a radical change by including the agricultural population residing within the city boundaries.	This explains the dramatic jump in urban population from the 138.7 million reported for year-end 1981 to the 206.6 million counted by the 1982 census.
noLabel	Illegal agent: This is a person who is living in another country under false credentials that does not report to a local station.	A non official cover operative is a type of cover used by an intelligence operative and can be dubbed an "Illegal" when working in another country without diplomatic protection.
noLabel	One of the first major colleges to adopt an open source system was Colorado State University in 2009 with many others following after that.	Colorado State Universities system was produced by the Kuali Foundation who has become a major player in open source administrative systems.
noLabel	Since it often takes a long time to build the network of relationships within the lobbying industry, ethical interpersonal dealings are important.	A maxim in the industry is for lobbyists to be truthful with people they are trying to persuade; one lobbyist described it this way: "what you've basically got is your word and reputation" .
noLabel	To avoid a chaotic Greek disorderly default and/or the systemic risks to the Eurozone in the scenario with Greece leaving the Euro, the EU leaders decided in October 2011, to engineer and offer an orderly default combined with a €130bn bailout loan, making it possible for Greece to continue as a full member of the Euro.	The offered orderly default and bailout loan, was however conditional, that Greece at the same time approved a new harsh austerity package . 
noLabel	The Survey USA Poll, which is not a head-to-head matchup, but only lists approval ratings of incumbents, found Hutchison with a 61 percent approval rating .	The Zogby poll, in contrast, showed a closer result, but still showed Hutchison with a 17.3 percent lead — the highest of any incumbent Republican Zogby tracks .
noLabel	This helped Atari recover from their earlier losses, and in turn the Atari VCS revived the home video game market during the second generation of consoles, up until the North American video game crash of 1983 .	The home video game industry was revitalized shortly afterwards by the widespread success of the Nintendo Entertainment System, which marked a shift in the dominance of the video game industry from the United States to Japan during the third generation of consoles .
noLabel	With the Charter's supremacy confirmed by section 52 of the Constitution Act, 1982, the courts continued their practice of striking down unconstitutional statutes or parts of statutes as they had with earlier case law regarding federalism.	However, under section 24 of the Charter, courts also gained new powers to enforce creative remedies and exclude more evidence in trials.
noLabel	She attended the University of Idaho in Moscow, Idaho, in late 1984 and early 1985, and Matanuska-Susitna College in Alaska in late 1985.	Palin returned to the University of Idaho in the spring of 1986, and received her bachelor's degree in communications with an emphasis in journalism in 1987 .
noLabel	World War I and its aftermath saw the end of three major European monarchies, the Russian Romanov dynasty, the German Hohenzollern dynasty and the Austro-Hungarian Habsburg dynasty.	In Russia, the 1917 February revolution resulted in the abdication of Tsar Nicholas II and the establishment of Bolshevik Russia and a civil war between the Bolshevik Red Army and the monarchist White Army from 1917 to 1921. 
noLabel	Many private schools have a stated religious character, although this does not generally aim at pupils' religious indoctrination and does not preclude pupils of other faiths attending if they wish.	Religion is not as important an aspect in the majority of parents' decision to send their child to an independent school as it is in the United States. 
noLabel	The most significant point is that under the capitalist mode of production, patent and copyright laws support in fundamental and thoroughgoing ways the expansion of the range of creative human activities that can be commodified.	This parallels the ways in which capitalism led to the commodification of many aspects of social life that hitherto had no monetary or economic value per se . 
noLabel	Beyond deaths and injuries, highly prevalent forms of violence (such as child maltreatment and intimate partner violence) have serious life-long non-injury health consequences.	Victims may engage in high-risk behaviours such as alcohol and substance misuse, smoking, and unsafe sex, which in turn can contribute to cardiovascular disorders, cancers, depression, diabetes and HIV/AIDS, resulting in premature death . 
noLabel	According to Michael Berenbaum, between two and three million Soviet prisoners-of-war—or around 57 percent of all Soviet POWs—died of starvation, mistreatment, or executions between June 1941 and May 1945, and most those during their first year of captivity.	According to other estimates by Daniel Goldhagen, an estimated 2.8 million Soviet POWs died in eight months in 1941–42, with a total of 3.5 million by mid-1944 .
noLabel	While in general many Canadians disliked the new policies of biculturalism and official bilingualism, the strongest opposition came from Canadians of neither English nor French descent, the so-called "Third Force" Canadians who advocated multiculturalism .	Biculturalism did not accord with local realities in the western provinces, where the French population was tiny compared to other cultural minorities .
noLabel	In condemnation of this view the Oath Against Modernism formulated by Pius X, a Pope of the Catholic Church, says: "Deum .. naturali rationis lumine per ea quae facta sunt, hoc est per visibilia creationis opera, tanquam causam per effectus certo cognosci adeoque demostrari etiam posse, profiteor."	("I declare that by the natural light of reason, God can be certainly known and therefore his existence demonstrated through the things that are made, i.e., through the visible works of creation, as the cause is known through its effects.")
noLabel	"The relevant burdens here are those imposed on eligible voters who lack photo identification cards that comply with SEA 483 .	Because Indiana’s cards are free, the inconvenience of going to the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, gathering required documents, and posing for a photograph does not qualify as a substantial burden on most voters’ right to vote, or represent a significant increase over the usual burdens of voting.
noLabel	She was quoted as saying that she had grown up in the Pentecostal Assembly of God church and that nothing about the service disturbed her .	Her former pastor believed the end of times was near and preached that people who voted for John Kerry in 2004 would go to hell .
noLabel	It follows that the probability of getting two heads in two tosses is (one in four) and the probability of getting three heads in three tosses is (one in eight).	In general, if we let Ai be the event that toss i of a fair coin comes up heads, then we have,
noLabel	The Grand Theft Auto series belongs to a genre of free-roaming video games called sandbox games, and grants a large amount of freedom to the player in deciding what to do and how to do it through multiple methods of transport and weapons.	Most traditional action games are structured as a single track series of levels with linear gameplay, but in GTA the player can determine the missions that he wants to undertake, and his relationships with various characters are changed based on these choices.
noLabel	Both the hero and the villain are muscular, have some sort of scar on their bodies or another physical sign of past violence.	The princess or damsel in distress, is portrayed as helpless, incapable or violence, and often wearing tightly fitting and revealing clothing that fails to contain her impossibly proportioned body .
noLabel	Opponents' stated concerns fall into several broad categories, including fears of poor academic quality, loss of income for the schools, and religious or social extremism, or lack of socialization with others.	At this time, over half of states have oversight into monitoring or measuring the academic progress of home schooled students, with all but ten requiring some form of notification to the state .
noLabel	Following the end of the Second World War, the British Nationality Act 1948 was passed to allow the 800 million subjects in the British Empire to live and work in the United Kingdom without needing a visa.	These people filled a gap in the UK labour market for unskilled jobs and many people were specifically brought to the UK on ships such as the Empire Windrush. 
noLabel	The United States of America first began developing nuclear weapons during World War II under the order of President Franklin Roosevelt in 1939, motivated by the fear that they were engaged in a race with Nazi Germany to develop such a weapon.	After a slow start under the direction of the National Bureau of Standards, at the urging of British scientists and American administrators the program was put under the Office of Scientific Research and Development, where in 1942 it was officially transferred under the auspices of the U.S. Army and became known as the Manhattan Project, an American, British and Canadian joint venture.
noLabel	In recent years, presidents had relatively more experience in such tasks as peanut farming, acting and governing governorships than in international affairs.	It has been debated whether voters are sufficiently skillful to assess the foreign policy potential of presidential candidates, since foreign policy experience is only one of a long list of attributes in which voters tend to select candidates.
noLabel	In his apostolic pilgrimage to Norway, Iceland, Finland, Denmark and Sweden of June 1989, John Paul II became the first pope to visit countries with Lutheran majorities.	In addition to celebrating Mass with Catholic believers, he participated in ecumenical services at places that had been Catholic shrines before the 16th century Lutheran reformation: Nidaros Cathedral in Norway; near St. Olav's Church at Thingvellir in Iceland; Turku Cathedral in Finland; Roskilde Cathedral in Denmark; and Uppsala Cathedral in Sweden. 
noLabel	In her televised interview with ABC News anchor Charlie Gibson on September 12, 2008, Sarah Palin made the statement that as a politician she felt that her opinions were to be made openly to the public, but that sometimes it may differ with political legislation.	When Gibson asked if she thought Roe v. Wade should be overturned, she replied, "I think it should and I think that states should be able to decide that issue.
noLabel	On February 28, 1954, the U.S. detonated its first deliverable thermonuclear weapon (which used isotopes of lithium as its fusion fuel), known as the "Shrimp" device of the "Castle Bravo" test, at Bikini Atoll, Marshall Islands.	The device yielded 15 megatons of energy, three times its expected yield, and became the worst radiological disaster in U.S. history.
noLabel	This tradition of absolutism, known as the czarist absolutism, was built on by Catherine II the Great and other later Czars.	Although Alexander II made some reforms and established an independent judicial system, Russia did not have a representative assembly or a constitution until the 1905 Revolution.
noLabel	On 18 July 2005, US President George W. Bush had met Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and declared that he would work to change US law and international rules to permit trade in US civilian nuclear technology with India .	Some, such as British columnist George Monbiot, argue that the U.S.-India nuclear deal, in combination with US attempts to deny Iran (an NPT signatory) civilian nuclear fuel-making technology, may destroy the NPT regime, while others contend that such a move will likely bring India, an NPT non-signatory, under closer international scrutiny. 
noLabel	The UN high commissioner for human rights, Navi Pillay, endorsed the report and supported the call on Israel and Hamas to investigate and prosecute those who committed war crimes .	UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon urged "credible" investigations by both sides into the conduct of the Gaza conflict "without delay" .
noLabel	Within the Protestant tradition in England, 17th Century Christian Mystic, Universalist and founder of the Philadelphian Society Jane Leade wrote copious descriptions of her visions and dialogues with the "Virgin Sophia" who, she said, revealed to her the spiritual workings of the Universe.	Leade was hugely influenced by the theosophical writings of 16th Century German Christian mystic Jakob Böhme, who also speaks of the Sophia in works such as The Way to Christ .
noLabel	However, freedom of expression can be limited through censorship, arrests, book burning, or propaganda, and this tends to discourage freedom of thought.	Examples of effective campaigns against freedom of expression are the Soviet suppression of genetics research in favor of a theory known as Lysenkoism, the book burning campaigns of Nazi Germany, the radical anti-intellectualism enforced in Cambodia under Pol Pot, and the strict limits on freedom of expression imposed by the Communist governments of the Peoples Republic of China and Cuba. 
noLabel	For example, according to the UNHCR, in 1999 Japan accepted just 16 refugees for resettlement, while the United States took in 85,010, and New Zealand, which has a much smaller population than Japan, accepted 1,140.	Between 1981, when Japan ratified the U.N. Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, and 2002, Japan recognized only 305 persons as refugees .
noLabel	According to Der Spiegel, a speaker for the Muslim organization Contactorgaan Moslims en Overheid (CMO), Yusuf Altuntas, said that Wilders "is obviously looking to push the limits, but he resists crossing them."	For instance, in the film a ripping sound overlaid with imagery of the Qur'an is said to be the ripping of a page from the phone book, and thunder sounds are replacing what might otherwise be perceived as bomb explosion sounds.
noLabel	Gun control proponents often cite the relatively high number of homicides committed with firearms as reason to support stricter gun control laws .	Firearm laws are a subject of great debate in the United States, with firearms also widely used for recreational purposes, and for personal protection .
noLabel	With high definition video an undeniable hit with veteran gamers seeking immersive experiences, expectations for visuals in games along with the increasing complexity of productions resulted in a spike in the development budgets of gaming companies.	While many game studios saw their Xbox 360 projects pay off, the unexpected weakness of PS3 sales resulted in heavy losses for some developers, and many publishers broke previously arranged PS3 exclusivity arrangements or cancelled PS3 game projects entirely in order to cut losses.
noLabel	After a long career as an academic, serving as a professor of theology at various German universities—the last being the University of Regensburg—he was appointed Archbishop of Munich and Freising and cardinal by Pope Paul VI in 1977.	In 1981, he settled in Rome when he became Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, one of the most important dicasteries of the Roman Curia.
noLabel	Sociologists in the American Mosaic Project report widespread belief in the United States that "prejudice and discrimination [in favor of whites] create a form of white privilege."	According to their 2003 poll this view was affirmed by 59% of white respondents, 83% of Blacks, and 84% of Hispanics .
noLabel	Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW) is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) organization that describes itself as "dedicated to promoting ethics and accountability in government and public life by targeting government officials – regardless of party affiliation – who sacrifice the common good to special interests.	" One of its most visible projects is "CREW's Most Corrupt", an annual report of whom CREW determines are Washington's most corrupt politicians. 
noLabel	Henry Bienen, the former president of Northwestern University, has described Arthur Butz's view of the Holocaust as an "embarrassment to Northwestern" .	In 2006, sixty of Butz's colleagues from the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science faculty signed a censure describing Butz's Holocaust denial as "an affront to our humanity and our standards as scholars" .
noLabel	Feminist economists argue that traditional analysis of economic systems often fails to take into account the value of the unpaid work being performed by men and women in a domestic setting.	Feminist economists have argued that unpaid domestic work is just as valuable as paid work and that measures of economic success should take unpaid work into account when evaluating economic systems.
noLabel	In the eighteenth and nineteenth century, the metaphor of a "crucible" or "(s)melting pot" was used to describe the fusion of different nationalities, ethnicities and cultures.	It was used together with concepts of the United States as an ideal republic and a "city upon a hill" or new promised land.
noLabel	Refugees of the 2011 Libyan civil war are the people, predominantly of Libyan nationality, who fled or were expelled from their homes during the 2011 Libyan civil war, from within the borders of Libya to the neighbouring states of Tunisia, Egypt and Chad, as well as to European countries, across the Mediterranean, as Boat people.	The majority of Libyan refugees are Arabs and Berbers, though many of other ethnicities, temporarily living in Libya, originated from sub-Saharan Africa, were also among the first refugee waves to exit the country.
noLabel	Education is compulsory up until the end of year 11 (the last Friday in June in the academic year a person turns 16), and schooling can continue for a further two years after that.	Traditionally the five years of compulsory secondary schooling from ages 11 to 16 were known as "first year" through to "fifth year," (and still are in the private sector) but from September 1990 these years were renumbered Year 7 through to Year 11 (Year 8 to Year 12 in Northern Ireland) with the coming of the National Curriculum. 
noLabel	Many open-source software projects have begun as research projects within universities, as personal projects of students or professors, or as tools to aid scientific research.	The influence of universities and research institutions on open source shows in the number of projects named after their host institutions, such as BSD Unix, CMU Common Lisp, or the NCSA HTTPd which evolved into Apache. 
noLabel	The current definition proposed by the US National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the World Health Organization (WHO) designates whites, Hispanics and blacks with a BMI of 25 or more as overweight.	For Asians, overweight is a BMI between 23 and 29.9 and obesity for all groups is a BMI of 30 or more. 
noLabel	What was critical to American values, John Adams insisted, was that the government be "bound by fixed laws, which the people have a voice in making, and a right to defend."	As Benjamin Franklin was exiting after writing the U.S. constitution, a woman asked him "Well, Doctor, what have we got—a republic or a monarchy?".
noLabel	President Bush made additional changes to the capital gains tax rates for the bottom two income tax brackets in 2001, which were lowered from 15% and 28% to 10% and 15%, respectively, by lowering the tax on long-term capital gains held for more than five years from 10% to 8%.	He also reduced the tax on short-term capital gains from 28% to 15% for the 15% tax bracket as well as lowered the tax on long-term capital goods from 20% to 10%.
noLabel	The PHR report accused the IDF of failing to assist in the evacuation of wounded Palestinians from the battlefield, claiming that the army had "created countless obstacles for the rescue teams in the field who attempted to evacuate trapped and injured persons."	The Defense Ministry, however, said in its report that the Palestinian health authorities had refused to cooperate with the Gaza Coordination and Liaison Administration (CLA) to coordinate the transfer of wounded to Israel, despite "numerous requests by the CLA" .
noLabel	Clan interaction took place on both professionally set competition events, and during normal casual playing where several members of one clan would play on a public server.	Clans would often do their recruiting this way; by noticing the best players on a particular server, they would send invitations for that player to either try out or accept membership in the clan. 
noLabel	The Accra Agenda for Action says developing-country governments still need to take stronger leadership of their own development policies and engage further with their parliaments and citizens in shaping them.	Donors must commit to supporting them by respecting countries’ priorities, investing in their human resources and institutions, making greater use of their systems to deliver aid, and further increasing the predictability of aid flows. 
noLabel	Many economists believe that, in the absence of intellectual property protections such as copyright and patents, various types of intangible assets would be under-produced, because there would be insufficient incentives for commercial organisations to produce them.	From this perspective, the objective of copyright law is primarily to balance the public benefits that can arise from the widespread circulation, use and reuse of a copyright work with the need to provide protection, incentive and reward to the creator or owner of the copyright by granting a limited monopoly to exploit the copyright to that body or individual .
noLabel	The Telegraph quoted an employee of a state company saying: "In fact, the police stations in Chongqing were actually the centre of the prostitution, gambling and drugs rackets.	They would detain gangsters from time to time, and sometimes send them to prison, but the gangsters described it as going away for a holiday.
noLabel	Feminists of this time period wanted birth control to be exclusively in the hands of women, and disapproved of male-controlled methods such as the condom .	Other writers cited both the expense of condoms and their unreliability (they were often riddled with holes, and often fell off or broke), but they discussed condoms as a good option for some, and as the only contraceptive that also protected from disease . 
noLabel	Cumulative impacts—the sum of impacts caused not only by the project, but by roads, transmission lines and all other nearby developments—are difficult to measure .	Cumulative impacts are an especially important consideration in areas where projects are clustered in high densities close to sources of electricity demand: for example, of the 628 pending water license applications for hydropower development in British Columbia, roughly one third are located in the southwestern quarter of the province, where human population density and associated environmental impacts are highest. 
noLabel	This income drop has caused a dramatic rise in people living under the poverty level and has hit suburbia particularly hard.	Between 2000 and 2010, the number of suburban households below the poverty line increased by 53 percent, compared to a 23 percent increase in poor households in urban areas .
noLabel	The movement has been criticized by some environmentalists and scientists for understating the environmental impact of fossil fuels and renewable resources, and overstating the dangers of nuclear power .	Bernard Cohen, Professor Emeritus of Physics at the University of Pittsburgh, calculates that nuclear power is many times safer than any other form of power generation . 
noLabel	In November 2007 the ASEAN members signed the ASEAN Charter, a constitution governing relations among the ASEAN members and establishing ASEAN itself as an international legal entity.	During the same year, the Cebu Declaration on East Asian Energy Security was signed in Cebu on 15 January 2007, by ASEAN and the other members of the EAS (Australia, People's Republic of China, India, Japan, New Zealand, South Korea), which promotes energy security by finding energy alternatives to conventional fuels. 
noLabel	Salzburg followed suit, and so by the start of 2005 the total had reached at least five states out of nine .	As a consequence of state law, reduction of the municipal voting age in the states of Burgenland, Salzburg and Vienna resulted in the reduction of the regional voting age in those states as well . 
noLabel	The Civil Rights Act of 1871 applies to public employment or employment involving state action prohibiting deprivation of rights secured by the federal constitution or federal laws through action under color of law.	Title VII is the principal federal statute with regard to employment discrimination prohibiting unlawful employment discrimination by public and private employers, labor organizations, training programs and employment agencies based on race or color, religion, gender, and national origin. 
noLabel	One of the four is falsely accusing an individual which falls under others perceiving you to be obtaining obedient or deviant behaviors.	Pure deviance, which falls under perceiving one to participate in deviant and rule-breaking behavior, is also a part of the four types of deviant behaviors listed above.
noLabel	Isolation is not a feasible alternative in the world, therefore, it is important to consider how best to approach these interactions, and to determine what is at stake for ourselves and the others: what conditions of hospitality to impose, and whether or not we have responded to the call of the Other.	Further, both theories reveal the importance of considering how best to interact with the Other and others, and what is at stake. 
noLabel	In Portugal, the primary education (ensino primário) used to include the first four years of compulsory education (1ª classe, 2ª classe, 3ª classe and 4ª classe), their pupils being children between six and ten years old.	After the education reform of 1986, the former primary education became the 1st cycle of the basic education (1º ciclo do ensino básico). 
noLabel	In the film Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Indiana Jones journeys to Berlin in order to retrieve his father's journal, which gives information about finding the Holy Grail.	He retrieves it during a Nazi book burning rally (although it was not targeted for burning itself), where it is inadvertently signed by Hitler himself. 
noLabel	Human rights activists and other policy groups criticize the Initiative's lack of a robust framework for institution building and the existence of coerced confessions, often through the use of torture .	In early July 2008, a video emerged of city police officers from León, Guanajuato, being taught torture methods by a U.S. security firm instructor; the video created an uproar in Mexico, which has struggled to eliminate torture in law enforcement.
noLabel	An Editorial in The Washington Post stated "they hardly provide a secret history of the war or disclose previously unknown malfeasance" and that "tends to fill out and confirm the narrative of Afghanistan between 2004 and 2009 that most Americans are already familiar with.	" The Post commented that it hardly merited the media hype and was not comparable to the Pentagon Papers or the MfS files The editorial argued Wikileaks' founder revealed his organization's antiwar agenda by making the claim it contained evidence for war crimes prosecutions .
noLabel	Error due to bias does not become smaller with larger sample sizes, because taking a larger sample size simply repeats the same mistake on a larger scale.	If the people who refuse to answer, or are never reached, have the same characteristics as the people who do answer, then the final results should be unbiased.
noLabel	" Other options exist where mainlanders can deliver babies in Saipan, US commonwealth where the cost is 70,000 yuan and does not require any US citizenship .	Congress representatives such as Phil Gingrey have tried to put an end to birth tourism, who said these people are "gaming the system" . 
noLabel	When used to make people think food is riper, fresher, or otherwise healthier than it really is, food coloring can be a form of deception.	When combined with added sugar or corn syrup, bright colors give the subconscious impression of healthy, ripe fruit, full of antioxidants and phytochemicals.
noLabel	Instant runoff voting was devised in 1871 by American architect William Robert Ware, although it is, in effect, a special case of the single transferable vote system, which emerged independently in the 1850s.	Unlike the single transferable vote in multi-seat elections, however, the only ballot transfers are from backers of candidates who have been eliminated. 
noLabel	Libetarian opponents of the Act, (and those worried about the availability of servants), ensured that it only applied to steerage passengers and to ships carrying more than 20 passengers.	It was easily evaded, (as noted in questions to Home Secretary, Winston Churchill, at the time), and did not even require Immigration Officers to give written permission to land or stamp a passport – permission to land was given verbally. 
noLabel	Some constitutions or fundamental laws provide for a head of state who is not just in theory but in practice chief executive, operating separately from, and independent from, the legislature.	This system is known as a "presidential system" and sometimes called the "imperial model", because the executive officials of the government are answerable solely and exclusively to a presiding, acting head of state, and is selected by and on occasion dismissed by the head of state without reference to the legislature.
noLabel	In case of a war, the Zhou Dynasty boasted an excellent military and technology mostly because of influence from annexed countries.	They also excelled in shipbuilding, which made them excellent mariners because of their discovery of navigating their ships to a precise destination by using the stars as their guide.
noLabel	While this accountability is one of the key arguments in favor of charters, evidence gathered by the United States Department of Education suggests that charter schools are not, in practice, held to higher standards of accountability than traditional public schools.	That point can be refuted by examining the number of traditional public schools that have been closed due to students' poor performance on end-of-course/end-of-grade tests.
noLabel	Two prominent Canadian authors (both very hostile to the "Chicago School" philosophy) argue that government at times has to intervene to ensure competition in large and important industries.	Naomi Klein illustrates this roughly in her work The Shock Doctrine and John Ralston Saul more humorously illustrates this through various examples in The Collapse of Globalism and the Reinvention of the World .
noLabel	And evolution is almost always within a system so that it is really co-evolution or pan-evolution whereby all parts directly or indirectly, symmetrically or asymmetrically, symbiotically or competitively influence each other.	Neither evolution nor adaptation means conformity to an already successful or dominant form such as "mainstream culture" or a simple majority.
noLabel	Detailed country by country information on Internet censorship is provided by the OpenNet Initiative, Reporters Without Borders, Freedom House, and in the U.S. State Department Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor's Human Rights Reports .	The ratings produced by several of these organizations are summarized in the Internet censorship by country and the Censorship by country articles.
noLabel	It is primarily taught in FE colleges (which are similar in concept to United States community colleges, and sometimes use "community college" in their title), work-based learning, and adult and community learning institutions.	This includes post-16 courses similar to those taught at schools and sub-degree courses similar to those taught at higher education (HE) colleges (which also teach degree-level courses) and at some universities.
noLabel	Her inspiration to write the book stemmed from the contrasting concerns of multiculturalism challenging the rights of women and feminism encroaching upon the well-being of cultures.	While Phillips presents many different perspectives on multiculturalism, her general argument in the book can be summed up as: “It is time for elaborating a version of multiculturalism that dispenses with reified notions of culture, engages more ruthlessly with cultural stereotypes, and refuses to subordinate the rights and interests of women to the supposed traditions of their culture.” .
noLabel	According to a study commissioned by Israel's Courts administration and Israel Bar Association, Arab Israelis who have been charged with certain types of crime are more likely than their Jewish counterparts to be convicted, and once convicted they are more likely to be sent to prison.	The study also found differences in lengths of prison sentences given, with the average prison sentence at nine and a half months for Jews and 14 months for Arabs . 
noLabel	However, if winning is contingent upon the survival of a single character, then that character effectively becomes the player's avatar .	An example of this would be in Baldur's Gate, where if the character created by the player dies, the game ends and a previous save needs to be loaded . 
noLabel	The BBC and The New York Times published material from the Vrba-Wetzler report on June 15 June 20, July 3 and July 6 1944.	The subsequent pressure from world leaders persuaded Miklós Horthy to bring the mass deportations of Jews from Hungary to Auschwitz to a halt on July 9, saving up to 200,000 Jews from the extermination camps . 
noLabel	It is alleged that the U.S., by training the military and police force in Mexico, is in violation of the Leahy Law.	In this case, the U.S. embassy officials in Mexico in charge of human rights and drug control programs are blamed with aiding and abetting these violations.
noLabel	Geothermal power plants can operate 24 hours per day, providing base-load capacity, and the world potential capacity for geothermal power generation is estimated at 85 GW over the next 30 years.	However, geothermal power is accessible only in limited areas of the world, including the United States, Central America, Indonesia, East Africa and the Philippines.
noLabel	Other growing markets are product placements in entertainment programming and movies where it has become standard practice and virtual advertising where products get placed retroactively into rerun shows.	Product billboards are virtually inserted into Major League Baseball broadcasts and in the same manner, virtual street banners or logos are projected on an entry canopy or sidewalks, for example during the arrival of celebrities at the 2001 Grammy Awards.
noLabel	The labor market in the United States has attracted immigrants from all over the world and its net migration rate is among the highest in the world.	The United States is one of the top-performing economies in studies such as the Ease of Doing Business Index, the Global Competitiveness Report, and others.
noLabel	Apparent Public Indifference International sports have suffered severe damage to their credibility because of drug scandals over the past 15 years, and now American professional sports face the same crises of legitimacy.	Major League Baseball said last week that 5 to 7 percent of drug tests collected last season showed positive for steroids.
noLabel	Playoff proponents argue against the internal validity of the BCS National Championship and lament that the participants of the BCS National Championship game are decided based upon coaches' and media polls rather than via previous, on-field competition such as the case with head-to-head, bracket-style tournaments in other major sports and levels of college football.	Proponents occasionally accuse the Bowl Championship Series of financial conflict with respect to the money earned in bowl games and the allocation of those resources . 
noLabel	The result of the 1990 Irish presidential election provides an example of how instant runoff voting can produce a different result than first-past-the-post voting.	The three candidates were Brian Lenihan of the traditionally dominant Fianna Fáil party, Austin Currie of Fine Gael, and Mary Robinson, nominated by the Labour Party and the Worker's Party.
noLabel	Although general rates of smoking are declining – “24.1% in 1998 to 20.6% in 2008,”  and there are higher rates among men – the gendered health consequences illustrate that women are at a greater disadvantage.	“In 2008, smoking prevalence was higher among men (23%) than women (18.3%),”  however that gender gap appears to be narrowing. 
noLabel	Most official development assistance (ODA) came from the 23 members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), or about USD 120 billion in 2009 .	In 2007 a further USD 11.8 billion came from the European Commission while all non-DAC countries gave USD 5.56 billion . 
noLabel	Individuals claimed that they were more likely to voice their opinions to non-Basques, suggesting that they have a "fear of isolation" in regards to fellow Basques.	Furthermore, the Spanish individuals questioned were more likely to be silent because of their greater proximity to the violent acts . 
noLabel	The Fairness Doctrine was a policy of the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC), introduced in 1949, that required the holders of broadcast licenses to both present controversial issues of public importance and to do so in a manner that was, in the Commission's view, honest, equitable and balanced.	The FCC decided to eliminate the Doctrine in 1987, and in August 2011 the FCC formally removed the language that implemented the Doctrine . 
noLabel	Bottom line, prejudice is not only inescapable but it is a necessary condition for understanding or sense-making as we know it.	This is why acculturation, according to Kramer's DAD theory, is a mode of learning, of integrating new information, and this process of integration is always in terms understandable to the learner.
noLabel	Critics from the peace movement and within the military establishment have questioned the usefulness of such weapons in the current military climate.	According to an advisory opinion issued by the International Court of Justice in 1996, the use of (or threat of use of) such weapons would generally be contrary to the rules of international law applicable in armed conflict, but the court did not reach an opinion as to whether or not the threat or use would be lawful in specific extreme circumstances such as if the survival of the state were at stake. 
noLabel	The United States government has created a new status that addresses prisoners captured by a military force who do not conform with the conditions of the Convention.	While the United States has only been a signatory to portions of the Geneva Conventions, much international law is based upon it.
noLabel	The South African Constitution's Bill of Rights enshrines the right to freedom of association in Section 18, which states “Everyone has the right to freedom of association.” Furthermore Section 17 states “Everyone has the right, peacefully and unarmed, to assemble, to demonstrate, to picket and to present petitions”, effectively enshrining the right freedom of assembly.	Workers' right to freedom of association in terms of the right to form trade unions and collective bargaining is recognized separately, in Section 23 .
noLabel	Jenny Hogan, Director of Policy for Scottish Renewables, said: "We have no confidence in these unofficial figures", and added: "It could be argued the Trust is acting irresponsibly given their expertise lies in protecting our wild lands and yet they seem to be going to great lengths to undermine renewable energy which is widely recognised as one of the biggest solutions to tackling climate change" .	An independent study investigated the JMT report by cross-referencing Renewable Obligation Certificates over the same study period and concluded that wind farms performed much better due to data problems with the BMReports website upon which the JMT Report was based.
noLabel	Growth in the US remained stable until the American Civil War in 1860s, when the primary agricultural workforce shifted from slavery to share cropping.	This, along with a change in demand, accompanied the industrialisation of cigarette production as craftsman James Bonsack created a machine in 1881 to partially automate their manufacture.
noLabel	In ancient Egypt, it was thought the problem takes at least two formulations, as in the extant manuscripts of Dialogue of a Man with His Ba and The Eloquent Peasant.	Due to the conception of Egyptian gods as being far removed, these two formulations of the problem focus heavily on the relation between evil and people; that is, moral evil .
noLabel	She temporarily required department heads to get her approval before talking to reporters, saying that they first needed to become acquainted with her administration's policies .	She created the position of city administrator, and reduced her own $68,000 salary by 10%, although by mid-1998 this was reversed by the city council . 
noLabel	Research indicates that pregnant teens are less likely to receive prenatal care, often seeking it in the third trimester, if at all .	The Guttmacher Institute reports that one-third of pregnant teens receive insufficient prenatal care and that their children are more likely to suffer from health issues in childhood or be hospitalized than those born to older women . 
noLabel	This contract has no effect on any other selecting organization; it operates only on its signatories&mdash;the member universities of the FBS.	Fans or media might argue, opine and arrive at differing results from those of the BCS, but the universities (teams) are bound by the latter's processes. 
noLabel	In a 2012 case in San Juan, Texas, under existing 1968 Gun Control Act provisions on straw purchasing (Title 18 United States Code, Section 924(a)(1)(A)), straw purchaser Taisa Garcia received 33 months and buyer Marco Villalobos received 46 months, plus two years supervision after release .	In another Texas gun trafficking case, Oscar Bravo Hernandez received a sentence of 84 months for buying and sending to Mexico at least 55 firearms from a ring of nine straw purchasers who received sentences from 51 months for the most involved down to 3 yrs probation for the least involved . 
noLabel	TPSAC consists of 12 members, including a chairperson, all of whom are selected by the FDA commissioner from among experts in medicine, medical ethics, science and technology related to the manufacture and use of tobacco products.	Nine voting seats are held for academics and practitioners in the field of health care, while three non-voting seats are held for industry representatives.
noLabel	After the collapse of Eastern Military High Command and the disintegration of Pakistan as a result of 1971 Winter war, Bhutto of Pakistan launched and embarked the scientific research on nuclear weapons.	This programme was delegated to Munir Ahmad Khan, Abdul Qadeer Khan, and Salam who later go on to win the Nobel Prize.
noLabel	But from another side God is the cause of all things, so he is efficacious also in sin as actio but not as ens.	The devil is not directly the cause of sin, but he incites the imagination and the sensuous impulse of man (as men or things may also do). 
noLabel	Since the 1970s, Brazil has had an ethanol fuel program which has allowed the country to become the world's second largest producer of ethanol (after the United States) and the world's largest exporter .	Brazil’s ethanol fuel program uses modern equipment and cheap sugar cane as feedstock, and the residual cane-waste (bagasse) is used to process heat and power .
noLabel	Transmission systems operators will supply a wind farm developer with a grid code to specify the requirements for interconnection to the transmission grid.	This will include power factor, constancy of frequency and dynamic behaviour of the wind farm turbines during a system fault .
noLabel	Before dawn, during the night, Israeli troops and tanks supported by artillery and helicopters advanced 300 metres into Tel al-Hawa, a neighborhood which has several high-rise buildings, while Israeli gunboats shelled Hamas targets along the coast .	As troops entered the narrow streets, heavy street fighting with militants ensued leaving three Israeli soldiers wounded and 30 Hamas militants dead or wounded, according to the IDF.
noLabel	In the United States, conservative Christian groups such as the Christian Legal Society and the Alliance Defense Fund have filed numerous lawsuits against public universities, aimed at overturning policies that protect homosexuals from discrimination and hate speech.	These groups argue that such policies infringe their right to freely exercise religion as guaranteed by the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment of the United States Constitution . 
noLabel	The debate was over the different issue of whether or not condoms could be used, not as contraceptives, but as a means of preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS and other sexually transmitted diseases.	In 1987, the U. S. Conference of Catholic Bishops issued a document suggesting that education on the use of condoms could be an acceptable part of an anti-AIDS program. 
noLabel	The effort was launched on September 18, 2005, after the massive scale of the reconstruction effort necessary for the areas devastated by Hurricane Katrina had become apparent.	It quickly picked up steam as blogger Glenn Reynolds (aka "Instapundit") began promoting the idea and the influential-though-anonymous blogger NZ Bear set up a website showing which members of the U.S. Congress had committed to cutting projects in their own districts to help offset the disaster recovery effort. 
noLabel	The girl escaped from Brown’s car a few hours later after realizing he was not an officer, according to West Virginia State Police.	After the arrest, the USMC demoted Brown to Captain and involuntarily retired him at that rank on February 1, 2006 .
noLabel	Sexually transmitted infections (STI), also previously referred to as sexually transmitted diseases (STD) and venereal diseases (VD), are illnesses that have a significant probability of transmission between humans by means of human sexual behavior, including vaginal intercourse, oral sex, and anal sex.	While in the past, these illnesses have mostly been referred to as STDs or VD, in recent years the term sexually transmitted infections (STIs) has been preferred, as it has a broader range of meaning; a person may be infected, and may potentially infect others, without having a disease.
noLabel	Portions of the pipeline will also cross an active seismic zone that had a 4.3 magnitude earthquake as recently as 2002 .	Opponents claim that TransCanada applied to the U.S. government to use thinner steel and pump at higher pressures than normal .
noLabel	During the twentieth century, it evolved to mean equal treatment of all religions, although a more restrictive interpretation of the term has developed since 2004 .	Critics do not consider it neutral but hostile to religion, whereas since World War II, some have seen the evolution of a "positive" laïcité which manages competing pluralities rather than serving as secular alternative to religion .
noLabel	McCain has promoted the legislation and eventually the granting of citizenship to the estimated 12–20 million illegal aliens in the United States and the creation of an additional guest worker program with an option for permanent immigration.	His prominent role in promoting the Senate's 2006 immigration legislation, including an initial cosponsorhip role with Ted Kennedy, made him a focus of the debate in 2006, and his support for S.1348 did so again in 2007.
noLabel	Thus, it became quite common in the Jewish world to perform metzitzah via a safe method, such as a sterilized glass tube.	This is removes all risk and is almost the universal practice today, although some ultra-Orthodox communities, most notably Hassidic Jews and some communities in Israel, continue to use the oral method. 
noLabel	The social experience is also founded upon personality which is a person's fairly consistent patterns of acting, thinking and feeling .	It is also found that personality depends on the way that person develops which in turn depends on the role of nature as well as nurture .
noLabel	In anticipation of criticism that the legislation was motivated by the upcoming election, the President noted that the election is fourteen months away and that Americans do not have the luxury of waiting fourteen months for jobs to be created .	In an October press conference, Obama responded to the suggestion from a reporter that his jobs tour was part of a political campaign, saying "The question is, will Congress do something?
noLabel	Copyright is also conceived by some to be an artificial barrier in that "expressions" could be freely exchanged between individuals and groups if there were no copyright or other legal restrictions preventing.	Such people believe that as the state does not necessarily possess the moral authority to enact copyright laws, individuals may vary in their observation of such laws.
noLabel	This method of information dissemination is labelled "astroturfing," as opposed to "grassroots activism," due to the funding for such movements being largely private .	More recent examples include the right-wing FreedomWorks.org which organized the "Taxpayer March on Washington" on September 12, 2009 and the Coaltion to Protect Patients' Rights, which opposes universal health care in the U.S .
noLabel	Additionally, the weapon design was simple enough that it was only deemed necessary to do laboratory tests with the gun-type assembly (known during the war as "tickling the dragon's tail").	Unlike the implosion design, which required sophisticated coordination of shaped explosive charges, the gun-type design was considered almost certain to work. 
noLabel	Thomas also pointed out in his dissenting opinion that even if abortion was a woman's right, the law in question was not designed to strike at the right itself.	He reminded the others that many groups, including even the American Medical Association, had concluded that partial-birth abortion was very different from other forms of abortion, and was often considered infanticide.
noLabel	A union may acquire the status of a "juristic person" (an artificial legal entity), with a mandate to negotiate with employers for the workers it represents.	In such cases, unions have certain legal rights, most importantly the right to engage in collective bargaining with the employer (or employers) over wages, working hours, and other terms and conditions of employment.
noLabel	According to Knight, the vast majority of human societies have not lived sustainable lifestyles, and attempts to live environmentally friendly lifestyles do not change the fact that human existence has ultimately been destructive to the Earth and many of its non-human organisms .	Voluntary human extinction is promoted on the grounds that it will prevent human suffering and the extinction of other species; Knight points out that many species are threatened by the increasing human population . 
noLabel	Also in 1982, Tron featured a programmer who was transported into a computer and had to directly take part in the games he had created.	In the 1984 film, The Last Starfighter, a stand-up arcade video game is used as a test to find those "with the gift", who are recruited to pilot actual Starfighter spacecraft in the conflict between the Rylan Star League and the Ko-Dan Empire.
noLabel	French society underwent an epic transformation as feudal, aristocratic and religious privileges evaporated under a sustained assault from radical left-wing political groups, masses on the streets, and peasants in the countryside.	Old ideas about tradition and hierarchy – of monarchy, aristocracy and religious authority – were abruptly overthrown by new Enlightenment principles of equality, citizenship and inalienable rights.
noLabel	Starting in 1991, the SFRY disintegrated in the Yugoslav Wars which followed the secession of most of the country's constituent entities.	The next Yugoslavia, known as the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, existed until 2003, when it was renamed Serbia and Montenegro, but in 2006 this state finally separated into Serbia and Montenegro.
noLabel	In practice, this means the government remains in power for close to its full term, and choose an election date it calculates to be in its best interests (unless something special happens, such as a motion of no-confidence).	This calculation depends on a number of variables, such as its performance in opinion polls and the size of its majority. 
noLabel	Talking to Bill Moyers Journal, Goldstone said that the committee chose 36 incidents that represented the highest death toll, where there seemed to be little or no military justification for what happened .	According to the report, another alleged war crime committed by IDF include “wanton” destruction of food production, water and sewerage facilities; the report also asserts that some attacks, which were supposedly aimed to kill small number of combatants amidst significant numbers of civilians, were disproportionate . 
noLabel	Advertising draws "heavily on psychological theories about how to create subjects, enabling advertising and marketing to take on a 'more clearly psychological tinge' .	Increasingly, the emphasis in advertising has switched from providing 'factual' information to the symbolic connotations of commodities, since the crucial cultural premise of advertising is that the material object being sold is never in itself enough.
noLabel	A 2005 poll commissioned by NBC News and People magazine found that, of the teens surveyed, the reasons they had sexual intercourse for the first time were:The vast majority of 13- to 16-year-olds, 87%, have not had sexual intercourse, and 73% have not been sexually intimate at all.	Three quarters of them have not because they feel they are too young, and just as many say they have made a conscious decision not to .
noLabel	As to the origins of this subculture of violence among African Americans, sociologists promoting the theory have pointed towards their Southern heritage.	As noted in several studies conducted throughout the 1960s and 1970s, there is a traditional North-South discrepancy in the distribution of homicide in the US, regardless of race, and this, it was argued, indicates that lower-class Southern Blacks and Whites share the same subculture of violence . 
noLabel	Iran is a signatory of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and claims that any work done in regards to nuclear technology is related only to civilian uses, which is acceptable under the treaty .	Iran violated the treaty by performing uranium-enrichment in secret, after which the United Nations Security Council ordered Iran to stop all uranium-enrichment .
noLabel	USADA determines its test distribution plan (TDP) or the determination of who, when, and where the organization tests through a combination of many factors that are consistent with the .	The purpose of USADA's test distribution plan is to use all available information and resources to intelligently, strategically, and most effectively detect and deter the use of performance enhancing drugs.
noLabel	Nicotine is an alkaloid found in the nightshade family of plants (Solanaceae) that constitutes approximately 0.6–3.0% of the dry weight of tobacco, with biosynthesis taking place in the roots and accumulation occurring in the leaves.	It functions as an antiherbivore chemical with particular specificity to insects; therefore nicotine was widely used as an insecticide in the past, and currently nicotine analogs such as imidacloprid continue to be widely used. 
noLabel	In his New Energy For America plan, Obama proposes to reduce overall U.S. oil consumption by at least 35%, or 10 million barrels per day, by 2030 in order to offset imports from OPEC nations .	And by 2011 the United States was said to be "awash with domestic oil and increasingly divorced and less reliant on foreign imports" . 
noLabel	Two days earlier, on 22 April 1939, after hearing a colloquium paper by Wilhelm Hanle on the use of uranium fission in a Uranmaschine (uranium machine, i.e., nuclear reactor), Georg Joos, along with Hanle, notified Wilhelm Dames, at the Reichserziehungsministerium (REM, Reich Ministry of Education), of potential military applications of nuclear energy.	The communication was given to Abraham Esau, head of the physics section of the Reichsforschungsrat (RFR, Reich Research Council) at the REM's undersecretary Rudolf Mentzel.
noLabel	The practice of imposing longer prison sentences on repeat offenders is common in many countries, but the Three strike laws in the U.S., which mandate 25 year imprisonment and were implemented in many states in the 1990s, is very extreme in comparison with most European countries.	During the first 9 years after Nixon coined the expression War on Drugs, statistics show only a minor increase in the total number of imprisoned which implies that some factor other than the declaration of "war" is the primary contributor to the incarceration rate.
noLabel	During the early stages of the Scandinavian Viking Age, Ystad in Scania and Paviken on Gotland, in present-day Sweden, were flourishing trade centres.	Remains of what is believed to have been a large market have been found in Ystad dating from 600–700 AD .
noLabel	In the case of private schooling, schools operate independently of the state and generally defray their costs (or even make a profit) by charging parents tuition fees.	The funding for state schools, on the other hand, is provided by tax revenues, so that even individuals who do not attend school (or whose dependents do not attend school) help to ensure that society is educated.
noLabel	In 1986 the Supreme Court held in Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, , that sexual harassment is sex discrimination and is prohibited by Title VII.	Same-sex sexual harassment has also been held in a unanimous decision written by Justice Scalia to be prohibited by Title VII (Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services, Inc., , 118 S.Ct.
noLabel	A book by Rainer Karlsch, Hitlers Bombe, published in 2005, alleged that Diebner's team conducted the first successful nuclear weapon test of some type (employing hollow charges for ignition) of nuclear related device in Ohrdruf, Thuringia on 4 March 1945 .	However, Karlsch has been criticized for displaying "a catastrophic lack of understanding of physics" by physicist Michael Schaaf, who is himself the author of an earlier book about Nazi atomic research, while Karlsch himself has acknowledged that he lacked absolute proof for the claims made in his book . 
noLabel	And yet, the scourge of racially-motivated voter disenfranchisement legislation throughout the country, a potent example of Republican hubris and overreach, provides ample proof that the act is needed now more than ever.America is on the path to becoming a nation whose majority consists of people of color.	The ongoing attack on civil rights, funded by the Koch Brothers and others, reflects a refusal by white conservatives to accept this new reality.
noLabel	While most shooters are played as solo ventures, several offer the players the opportunity to control a squad of characters, usually directly controlling one, and giving orders to computer-controlled allies.	Games which feature non-player characters fighting alongside the player, but which are not directly controllable (either by switching player control, or issuing orders to the character) are not considered squad-based games.
noLabel	It spawned the Dragon Warrior {and later renamed Dragon Quest} franchise and served as the blueprint for the emerging console RPG genre, inspiring the likes of Sega's Phantasy Star (1987) and Square's Final Fantasy (1987), which spawned its own successful Final Fantasy franchise and introduced the side-view turn-based battle system, with the player characters on the right and the enemies on the left, imitated by numerous later RPGs .	Megami Tensei (1987) and Phantasy Star (1987) broke with tradition, abandoning the medieval setting and sword and sorcery themes common in most RPGs, in favour of modern/futuristic settings and science fiction themes. 
noLabel	Nevertheless, Human Rights Watch has said that such justifications do not overcome the illegality of the attacks under laws governing reprisals, which prohibit direct or indiscriminate attacks on civilians .	In its August 2009 report, HRW notes that the absence of Israeli military forces in the areas struck by the rockets, as well as statements from the leaders of Hamas and other armed groups, indicate that many of these attacks are deliberately intended to strike Israeli civilians and civilian structures; individuals who willfully authorize or carry out deliberate or indiscriminate attacks against civilians are committing war crimes . 
noLabel	There has recently been a debate within the media industry focusing on the potentially negative impact size zero models can have on young people's body image.	It has been suggested that size zero models be banned from cat walks, with many celebrities being targeted by the media due to their often drastic weight loss and slender frames; for example, Nicole Richie and British Super Model Kate Moss. 
noLabel	Stanford computer scientist John McCarthy states, "We also have no need for [the hypothesis of God], because science has been successful, and science is the best approach to solving the mysteries that remain.	" Apologists for religion such as William Lane Craig, however, claim that there are reasonable arguments supporting the existence of God .
noLabel	The ability of either the Immigration Service, or their administrative HQ at Princeton House in High Holborn, to combat these abuses was limited.	The entire administrative strength of the Immigration and Nationality Dept at Princeton House was approximately 300 and before 1962 IND was divided into three "Divisions" B1, (casework), B2, (policy) and A2, (admin).
noLabel	In October 2008, Canadian research group Citizen Lab released a new report saying TOM's Chinese-language Skype software filtered sensitive words and then logged these, with users' information to a file on computer servers which were insecure .	In September 2007, activists in China had already warned about the possibility that TOM's versions have or will have more trojan capability .
noLabel	The code, adopted yesterday in Copenhagen, does not apply to America's professional leagues in football, baseball, basketball and hockey because they are not under government control.	But athletes from the National Basketball Association and the National Hockey League who take part in the Olympics and certain other international competitions are subject to the code.
noLabel	Roosevelt mentioned four fundamental freedoms, which ought to be enjoyed by people "everywhere in the world"; these included the freedom of speech and religion, as well as freedom from want and fear.	Roosevelt helped establish terms for a post-war world among potential allies at the Atlantic Conference; specific points were included to correct earlier failures, which became a step toward the United Nations.
noLabel	The bill states that it is acting to restore "ancient rights" trampled upon by James II, though some have argued that the English Bill of Rights created a new right to have arms, which developed out of a duty to have arms .	In District of Columbia v. Heller (2008), the Supreme Court did not accept this view, remarking that the English right at the time of the passing of the English Bill of Rights was "clearly an individual right, having nothing whatsoever to do with service in the militia" and that it was a right not to be disarmed by the crown and was not the granting of a new right to have arms . 
noLabel	In a speech, David Irving states that Heydrich told Eichmann, "The Führer has given the order for the physical destruction of the Jews" .	Irving admits that this contradicts his view that "Hitler wasn't involved", but explains it by suggesting that a completely different meaning can be construed, i.e.
noLabel	Justin Vaisse, co-author of Integrating Islam Political and Religious Challenges in Contemporary France, seeks to discredit what he calls, "four myths of the alarmist school," using Muslims in France as an example.	Specifically he wrote that the Muslim population growth rate was lower than that predicted by Eurabia, partly because the fertility rate of immigrants declines with integration .
noLabel	Mutual accountability: Donors and developing countries must account more transparently to each other for their use of aid funds, and to their citizens and parliaments for the impact of their aid.	The Paris Declaration says all countries must have procedures in place by 2010 to report back openly on their development results. 
noLabel	An electoral college of nine members elected 40 people by approval voting; those 40 were reduced to form a second electoral college of 12 members by drawing lots again.	The second electoral college elected 25 people by approval voting, which were reduced to form a third electoral college of nine members by drawing lots.
noLabel	In the beginning, almost all nuclear tests were either "atmospheric" (conducted above ground, in the atmosphere) or "underwater" (such as some of the tests done in the Marshall Islands).	Testing was used as a sign of both national and technological strength, but also raised questions about the safety of the tests, which released nuclear fallout into the atmosphere (most dramatically with the Castle Bravo test in 1954, but in more limited amounts with almost all atmospheric nuclear testing).
noLabel	Friedman visited Iceland during the autumn of 1984, met with important Icelanders and gave a lecture at the University of Iceland on the "tyranny of the status quo."	He participated in  on August 31, 1984 with socialist intellectuals, including Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, who later became the president of Iceland .
noLabel	NWFZs do cover most territories belonging to nuclear weapons states that are situated inside NWFZ boundaries; all are small islands except for French Guiana.	However, the U.S. signed but has not ratified Protocol I to the Treaty of Rarotonga which would apply to American Samoa and the U.S. and Britain dispute the African NWFZ's applicability to Diego Garcia which is an American military base.
noLabel	Therefore, the clear language of the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment prevents Congress from mandating that physicians and hospitals bear the entire costs of providing health care to any group.	" He has proposed measures that, if enacted, would shift the burden of paying for such care to the government, by providing physicians with tax credits for 100% of the cost of uncompensated care they provide under such laws, and hospitals with a 100% deduction .
noLabel	Smoking prevalence has changed little since the mid-1990s (until which time it declined in English-speaking countries, which have all implemented tobacco control).	In Western countries, smoking is more prevalent among populations with mental health problems, with alcohol and drug problems, among criminals, and among the homeless . 
noLabel	This film, as well as Bergman's Sommaren med Monika (The Summer with Monika), caused an international uproar, not least in the US where the films were charged with violating standards of decency.	Vilgot Sjöman's film I Am Curious (Yellow), also created an international uproar, but it was very popular in the United States.
noLabel	 For the 1992 General Election the Labour Party had a policy of ensuring there was at least one statutory female candidate on each of its shortlists, however few of these women were successful in being selected in winnable seats (seats within a 6% swing) .	Following polling that suggested women were less likely to vote Labour than men, the party introduced All-women shortlists at its 1993 annual conference .
noLabel	The students who had played the violent video games were observed to be significantly less affected by the a simulated aggressive act than those who didn't play the violent video games.	However the degree to which the simulation was "believable" to the participants, or to which the participants may have responded to "demand characteristics" is unclear (see criticisms below).
noLabel	Since the NFL started random, year-round tests and suspending players for banned substances, many more players have been found to be in violation of the policy.	By April 2005, 111 NFL players had tested positive for banned substances, and of those 111, the NFL suspended 54 . 
noLabel	On June 28, 1971, the Supreme Court reversed his conviction for refusing induction by unanimous decision in Clay v. United States .	The decision was not based on, nor did it address, the merits of Clay's/Ali's claims per se; rather, the Government's failure to specify which claims were rejected and which were sustained, constituted the grounds upon which the Court reversed the conviction .
noLabel	" By the 1990s and 2000s, the largest component of Canada’s immigrants came from Asia, including the Middle East, South Asia, South-East Asia and East Asia .	In 2001, approximately 250,640 people immigrated to Canada, mostly settling in the major urban areas of Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Montreal . 
noLabel	George W. Bush signed a partial-birth abortion ban into law in 2003, and this was found constitutional in 2007 by the US Supreme Court in Planned Parenthood Federation of America v. Gonzales[4] (largely reversing the Court's decision in a 2000 case on state law)[5].	Although this is not necessarily a US-specific debate, the issue is on the political agenda in the USA to an extent which is not matched elsewhere, and some of the arguments here reflect this. 
noLabel	Religious groups, human rights activists, free-speech activists, and several countries in the West have condemned the resolutions arguing it amounts to an international blasphemy law .	Critics of the resolutions including human rights groups argue that they are used to politically strengthen domestic anti-blasphemy and religious defamation laws, which are used to imprison journalists, students and other peaceful political dissidents . 
noLabel	[6] Attempts by these two governments to cut the flow of information and shut the internet down during these protests also stimulated efforts to develop tools to help protestors bypass government’s censorship efforts.	For example there was widespread coverage of a program called Haystack that was created to provide a secure route to anonomise users identities and so provide a safe way to communicate with the world.
noLabel	The Ancient Olympic Games were largely composed of sports that tested skills related to combat, such as armored foot races, boxing, wrestling, pankration and chariot racing, amongst others.	This tradition of combat sports was taken even further by the Romans with gladiators who would fight with weapons, sometimes to the death. 
noLabel	In the 7th century BC, the Chinese physician Master Tung-hsuan documented both coitus reservatus and coitus obstructus, which prevents the release of semen during intercourse.	However, it is not known if these methods were used primarily as birth control methods or to preserve the man's yang.
noLabel	In Cloud of Sparrows, by the Japanese-American writer, Takashi Matsuoka, and later in its sequel The Autumn Bridge, burakumin are often mentioned by the old name 'eta'.	They are described as filthy beggars, more animal than human, and their life has no apparent value to the samurai, a fact that baffles the Christian missionaries visiting Japan in the novels. 
noLabel	In particular, he thinks that as more elderly men, and even women, use testosterone to enhance their lives, it will become impossible to prohibit the drug from enhancing sports performance.	The Tour ends in Paris today, and the current controversy may get a flat tire; only the squeaky clean, the retired and the busted will want to talk.
noLabel	Alternate controllers also continue to be important in gaming, as the increasingly involved controllers associated with Red Octane's Guitar Hero series and Harmonix's Rock Band demonstrate.	In addition to this, Nintendo has produced various add-on attachments meant to adapt the Wii Remote to specific games, such as the Wii Zapper for shooting games and the Wii Wheel for driving games .
noLabel	Developing these wind power sources in Brazil is helping the country to meet its strategic objectives of enhancing energy security, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and creating jobs.	The potential for this type of power generation in Brazil could reach up to 145,000 MW, according to the 2001 Brazilian Wind Power Potential Report by the Electric Energy Research Center (Cepel).
noLabel	Currently the US Senate Committee on Environmental and Public Works has control over the legislation and will begin to complete a markup by September 25, 2009.	The House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act on June 26, 2009, comprising a provision to reduce carbon dioxide emissions 17% below 2005 levels by 2020 and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050.
noLabel	The heat can also be used for industrial applications or as an energy input for other uses such as cooling equipment .	In many climates, a solar heating system can provide a very high percentage (50 to 75%) of domestic hot water energy. 
noLabel	In the latter half of the 19th century, opium smoking became popular in the artistic community in Europe, especially Paris in artists' neighborhoods such as and Montparnasse and Montmartre being virtual "opium capitals".	While opium dens that catered primarily to emigrant Chinese continued to exist in China Towns around the world, the trend among the European artists largely abated after the outbreak of World War I .
noLabel	On October 10, 2008, the Alaska Legislative Council unanimously voted to release, without endorsing, the Branchflower Report, in which investigator Stephen Branchflower found that firing Monegan "was a proper and lawful exercise of her constitutional and statutory authority," but that Palin abused her power as governor and violated the state's Executive Branch Ethics Act when her office pressured Monegan to fire Wooten .	The report stated that "Governor Palin knowingly permitted a situation to continue where impermissible pressure was placed on several subordinates to advance a personal agenda, to wit: to get Trooper Michael Wooten fired.
noLabel	Also commented by the Foreign Minister was the use of economic sanctions against Myanmar, which was viewed as being more likely to affect ordinary citizens more than the targeted group .	Soe Win, the News and Periodicals Enterprise Managing Director and head of Myanmar's information agency, lauded Malaysia's stand on the issue of sanctions, adding: . 
noLabel	In the US, the development of the "water-pumping windmill" was the major factor in allowing the farming and ranching of vast areas otherwise devoid of readily accessible water.	Windpumps contributed to the expansion of rail transport systems throughout the world, by pumping water from water wells for the steam locomotives .
noLabel	On the evening of January 3, Israel began the ground operation with a massive artillery barrage all along the Gaza boundary, and ground forces were sent into Gaza for the first time since the start of the conflict .	According to the IDF, the intention of the ground invasion, termed the 'second stage' of Operation Cast Lead, was to secure areas within the Gaza Strip from which militants continued to launch rockets even after the Israeli air strikes. 
noLabel	Another example is formed by children of foreigners born in countries observing jus soli ("right of territory"), such as was the case in France until 1994 and in Ireland until 2005 .	In these countries, it was possible to obtain French or Irish nationality (respectively) solely by being born in France before 1994 or in Ireland before 2005 (respectively).
noLabel	In a November 2010 White paper, Gove declared reforms would include the compulsory study of foreign languages up to the age of 16, and a shake-up of league tables in which schools are ranked higher for the number of pupils taking GCSEs in five core subjects: English; mathematics; science; a language; and one of the humanities.	He also announced that experts such as historian Simon Schama will be brought in to review the curriculum, and that targets are to be introduced for primary schools for the first time.
noLabel	In this context there is a difference between organised and professional crime; there is well-defined hierarchy of roles for leaders and members, underlying rules and specific goals that determine their behavior, and these are formed as a social system, one that was rationally designed to maximize profits and to provide forbidden goods.	Albini saw organised criminal behaviour as consisting of networks of patrons and clients, rather than rational hierarchies or secret societies . 
noLabel	It was the largest and most comprehensive global analysis of tropical forests and poverty, and aimed to put a systematic framework of knowledge around the role tropical forests play in poverty alleviation.	The project aimed to provide data on the ways that poor people depend on forest resources, in order to both inform mainstream forest policy design and to contribute to the design of effective policies and projects to alleviate poverty, and thereby contribute to meeting the Millennium Development Goal of 50% poverty reduction by 2015. 
noLabel	India possesses nuclear weapons and maintains short- and intermediate-range ballistic missiles, nuclear-capable aircraft, surface ships, and submarines under development as possible delivery systems and platforms.	Although it lacks an operational ballistic missile submarine, India has ambitions of possessing a nuclear triad in the near future when INS Arihant the lead ship of India's Arihant class of nuclear-powered submarines formally joins the Indian Navy in 2011 after undergoing extensive sea-trials. 
noLabel	In May 2009, the non-profit National Legal and Policy Center filed an ethics complaint against Rangel and other members of Congress for trips, taken in 2007 and 2008 to Caribbean islands.	The trips had been sponsored by Carib News Foundation, a New York non-profit funded by corporations with interests before Congress and the Ways and Means Committee .
noLabel	There are three general manifestations of such trauma - the typical knock out which results in a sustained loss of consciousness (comparable to general anesthesia - where the recipient emerges and has lost memory of the event), a "flash" knock out where a very transient (less than three seconds) loss of consciousness occurs (where the recipient often maintains awareness and memory of the combat), and lastly a "stunning" where consciousness is maintained despite extremely distorted proprioception, visual fields, and auditory processing.	A basic principle of boxing, and other combat sports is to defend against this vulnerability by keeping both hands raised about the face and the chin tucked in. 
noLabel	The Terrorism Act 2000 makes it an offense to collect or possess information likely to be of use to a terrorist .	Bilal Zaheer Ahmad, 23, from Wolverhampton, is believed to be the first first person convicted of collecting information likely to be of use to a terrorist, including the al-Qaeda publication Inspire . 
noLabel	From its foundation until the 1999 referendum, the Australian Republican Movement (ARM) supported the bi-partisan appointment model, which would result in a President elected by the Parliament of Australia, with the powers currently held by the Governor-General.	It is argued that the requirement of a two-thirds majority in a vote of both houses of parliament would result in a bi-partisan appointment, preventing a party politician from becoming president . 
noLabel	In 1992 India signed the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), stating that it did not have chemical weapons and the capacity or capability to manufacture chemical weapons.	By doing this India became one of the original signatories of the Chemical Weapons Convention [CWC] in 1993, and ratified it on 2 September 1996.
noLabel	Gangs and traditional criminal organisations cannot be universally linked (Decker, 1998), however there there are clear benefits to both the adult and youth organisation through their association.	In terms of structure, no single crime group is archetypal, though in most cases there are well-defined patterns of vertical integration (where criminal groups attempt to control the supply and demand), as is the case in arms, sex and drug trafficking.
noLabel	Boxers generally attempt to land high, fast combinations and then quickly shift position to avoid a possible response by their opponent.	Strategically, the ring's centre is generally the desired position since a boxer is able to conserve movement by forcing the opponent to circle around them.
noLabel	Although both sides are likely to see the rights-based considerations as paramount, some popular arguments appeal to consequentialist or utilitarian considerations.	For example, pro-life advocacy groups (see the list below) sometimes claim that the abortion – breast cancer hypothesis, post-abortion syndrome, and other alleged medical and psychological are risks of abortion.
noLabel	According to The Council of State Governments, by March 18, 2011, 32 states plus the Virgin Islands had borrowed nearly $45.7 billion.	The Labor Department estimates by the fourth quarter of 2013, as many as 40 states may need to borrow more than $90 billion to fund their unemployment programs and it will take a decade or more to pay off the debt .
noLabel	The focus on the family as a source of control was in marked contrast to the emphasis on economic circumstances as a source of criminogenic motivation at the time.	Although he acknowledged motivational forces by stating that, "..some delinquent behavior results from a combination of positive learning and weak and ineffective social control" (1958: 4), he adopted a control-theory position when he proposed that, ".most delinquent behavior is the result of insufficient social control.." .
noLabel	Sexual ethics (also referred to as sexual morality) refers to those aspects of ethics that deal with issues arising from all aspects of sexuality and human sexual behavior.	Broadly speaking, sexual ethics relates to community and personal standards relating to the conduct of interpersonal relationships, and deals with issues of consent, sexual relations before marriage and/or while married, including issues of marital fidelity and premarital and non-marital sex, issues related to sexuality, questions about how gender and power are expressed through sexual behavior, questions about how individuals relate to society, and questions about how individual behavior impacts public health concerns. 
noLabel	A particular point of interest is its apparent tension with decisions of the European Court of Justice of the European Union in The Rosella and Laval, which held that there is a qualified right to strike, but one which can only be exercised when it does not disproportionately affect the EU business right to freedom of establishment or providing services.	It is highly open to question that these two cases, which preceded the judgment in Demir could be reconciled, given that Convention jurisprudence places the emphasis on justifying restrictions on the human right to free association, and would seem to favour greater attention to the need to collectively bargain.
noLabel	All of the 4 Kongō class Aegis destroyers of the Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force were modified to accommodate the ABM operational capability .	On December 17, 2007, JDS Kongō successfully shot down a mock ballistic missile by its SM-3 Block IA, off the coast of Hawaii .
noLabel	Wind power is growing at the rate of 30% annually, with a worldwide installed capacity of 238,000 megawatts (MW) at the end of 2011, and is widely used in Europe, Asia, and the United States .	At the end of 2011 the photovoltaic (PV) capacity worldwide was 67,000 MW, and PV power stations are popular in Germany and Italy .
noLabel	On the morning of March 31, 1966, David Paul O'Brien and three companions burned their draft cards on the steps of the South Boston Courthouse, in front of a crowd that included several FBI agents.	After the four men came under attack from some of the crowd, an FBI agent ushered O'Brien inside the courthouse and advised him of his rights.
noLabel	Critics state that Eichmann gives a virtually identical account of this in his memoirs, and state that it is also asserted that Eichmann never even asked for a written order, on the basis that "Hitler's wish as expressed through Himmler and Heydrich was good enough for him" .	Eichmann's memoirs were recorded by Willem Sassen before he was captured, and Eichmann's lawyer tried to prevent them from being presented as evidence to avoid any detriment against his case . 
noLabel	They found an increase in the proportion of males from 1751 to 1920; this was followed by a decrease and interrupted by peaks in births of males during and after World War I and World War II.	None of the natural factors such as paternal age, maternal age, age difference of parents, birth order could explain the time trends.
noLabel	The military attempted to socialize and Americanize young immigrant recruits, not by forcing "angloconformity," but by showing remarkable sensitivity and respect for ethnic values and traditions and a concern for the morale of immigrant troops.	Sports activities, keeping immigrant groups together, newspapers in various languages, the assistance of bilingual officers, and ethnic entertainment programs were all employed .
noLabel	During the years leading up to the subprime mortgage financial crisis, private label securitizations grew as a share of overall mortgage securitization by purchasing and securitizing low quality, high risk mortgages.	Agency Securitizations appear to have somewhat lowered their standards, but Agency mortgages remained considerably safer than mortgages in private label securitizations, and performed far better in terms of default rates . 
noLabel	The conference was of the opinion that reducing subsidies and tariffs would improve the well-being of the global poor more than any agricultural, political, or environmental program.	They considered that the free trade in labour would also be a significant (although less important) move against poverty, especially if skilled worker migration were permitted.
noLabel	The report concluded that although there were indications that Palestinian militants had fired rockets from urban areas they did not see any evidence that this was done with the intent of shielding themselves from counter strikes by the Israeli armed forces.	The report notes that due to the densely populated nature of the Gaza strip, once the Israeli forces gained control of the outlying areas in the first few days of the ground invasion, most (if not all) the locations still accessible to the Palestinian militants would have been in urban areas .
noLabel	The IGA is targeted at online gambling operators and makes it an offense for them to offer ‘real-money’ online interactive gambling to residents of Australia.	It also makes it illegal for online gambling operators to advertise ‘real-money’ interactive gambling services (such as online poker and casino) to Australian citizens . 
noLabel	A survey by the World Health Organization concerning the habits of European teenagers in 2006 revealed that German teenagers care about contraception.	The birth rate among 15 to 19-year-olds is 11.7 per 1000 population, compared to 2.9 per 1000 population in Korea, and 55.6 per 1000 population in US . 
noLabel	The criminal justice approach, beyond justice and punishment, has traditionally emphasized indicated interventions, aimed at those who have already been involved in violence, either as victims or as perpetrators.	One of the main reasons offenders are arrested, prosecuted, and convicted is to prevent further crimes – through deterrence (threatening potential offenders with criminal sanctions if they commit crimes), incapacitation (physically preventing offenders from committing further crimes by locking them up) and through rehabilitation (using time spent under state supervision to develop skills or change one's psychological make-up to reduce the likelihood of future offences) . 
noLabel	A particularly weak part of the skull that is vulnerable to damage causing extradural haematoma is the pterion, deep in which lies the middle meningeal artery which is easily damaged in fractures of the pterion.	Since the pterion is so weak this type of injury can easily occur and can be secondary due to trauma to other parts of the skull where the impact forces spreads to the pterion.
noLabel	He said "While condemning the use of force and deploring the human losses as well as the sufferings of innocent people, we urge the international community, mainly the UN Security Council, to fully commit to end the language of weapons."	He also said that any resolution of the crisis must be comprehensive, taking into account the right of both the Israeli and the Palestinian to exist .
noLabel	Later acts amended US Copyright law so that for certain purposes making 10 copies or more is construed to be commercial, but there is no general rule permitting such copying.	Indeed making one complete copy of a work, or in many cases using a portion of it, for commercial purposes will not be considered fair use.
noLabel	Jeff Snyder is a spokesman for the view that gun possession is a civil right, and that therefore arguments about whether gun restrictions reduce or increase violent crime are beside the point: "I am not here engaged in..recommending..policy prescriptions on the basis of the promised or probable results [on crime]..Thus these essays are not fundamentally about guns at all.	They are, foremost, about..the kind of people we intend to be..and the ethical and political consequences of decisions [to control firearms].
noLabel	Well controlled longitudinal research indicates that children's exposure to community violence during the early elementary school years increases the risk of aggression later in elementary school, as reported by teachers and classmates .	Other, well controlled longitudinal research that utilized propensity score analyses indicates that exposure to gun violence in early adolescence is related to the initiation of serious physical violence in later adolescence .
noLabel	Abortion is illegal in Poland unless the pregnancy endangers the life of the mother, the pregnancy was the result of a criminal act or the fetus is seriously malformed .	Abortion was legalized by the Soviet Union throughout its rule of Poland, but this policy was abandoned after the fall of the USSR.
noLabel	It takes away from the feeling that there's an athlete who's doing his very best and that's what his best is, not enhanced by some artificial stimulant that allows him to be a superman out there.	Jill Nudo, 50, a housewife and mother from Overland Park, Kan., said she was concerned about the impact of drug use by athletes on impressionable children.
noLabel	Marion Dutton Savage associates the spirit of industrial unionism with "the aspiration of workers for the control of industry" inspired by Robert Owen in 1833-34.	The Grand Consolidated Trade Union (GCTU) recruited skilled and unskilled workers from many industries, with membership growing to half a million within a few weeks.
noLabel	The Pope also met with the Maltese youth at the Valletta Waterfront, where an estimated 10,000 young people turned up to greet him .	During his visit the Pope was moved to tears while expressing his shame at cases of abuse on the island during a 20 minute meeting with victims .
noLabel	(2) No one shall be held guilty of any penal offence on account of any act or omission which did not constitute a penal offence, under national or international law, at the time when it was committed.	Nor shall a heavier penalty be imposed than the one that was applicable at the time the penal offence was committed.
noLabel	In February 1999, Wilkes met with Shockey, then a Lewis aide, to ask the Lewis's office to intervene on a project paid through the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) .	On April 15, 1999, three months after Lewis was named chairman of the House defense appropriations subcommittee, he received $17,000 in campaign contributions from Wilkes and his associates .
noLabel	Just as there are non-violent and violent sports games, so too are there flight and combat flight simulators, space flight and space combat simulators, and racing games and vehicular combat games.	Distinction of games as violent or non-violent here serves a purely practical purpose as gameplay may differ considerably beyond the merely aesthetic. 
noLabel	Dawkins then turns to a discussion of Keith Ward's views on divine simplicity to show the difficulty "the theological mind has in grasping where the complexity of life comes from."	Dawkins writes that Ward is sceptical of Arthur Peacocke's ideas that evolution is directed by other forces than only natural selection and that these processes may have a propensity toward increasing complexity.
noLabel	He had taken a heavy dose of the painkiller, Palfium, to help him stay with Nencini on Col de Perjuret .	Rivière later admitted to being a drug addict, telling a newspaper how he had doped to beat the world hour record, and admitted downing thousands of tablets a year.
noLabel	More broadly, "Sinicization" also refers to the phenomenon whereby neighbouring cultures to China have been influenced by Chinese culture and language without being assimilated.	This is reflected in the histories of Korea, Vietnam and Japan in Sinosphere, for example, as adopting of Chinese writing system.
noLabel	Decolonisation during the 1960s and 1970s often resulted in the mass exodus of European-descended settlers out of Africa – especially from North Africa (1.6 million European pieds noirs), Congo, Mozambique and Angola .	By the mid-1970s, the Portugal's African territories were lost, and nearly one million Portuguese or persons of Portuguese descent left those territories (mostly Portuguese Angola and Mozambique) as destitute refugees – the retornados . 
noLabel	Modern boxing gloves include breathable mesh palm technology with Velcro and 100% complete leather backed stitching, with some also including suspension cushioning and re-enforced padding for the boxer.	The UK use AIBA to approve the new design of gloves including the 12oz and 14oz and 16oz weight categories to coincide with the amount of leather and support boxers can use in fights. 
noLabel	Final Fantasy VII topped GamePro's "26 Best RPGs of All Time" list, IGN's 2000 "Reader's Choice Game of the Century" poll, and the GameFAQs "Best Game Ever" audience polls in 2004 and 2005 .	It was also selected in Empire magazine's "100 Greatest Games of All Time" list as the highest-ranking RPG, at #2 on the list .
noLabel	Although German did have an international quality to it, it was French that slowly took over Latin's status as the lingua franca of learned circles.	This in turn gave precedence to the publishing industry in Holland, where the vast majority of these French language periodicals were produced . 
noLabel	Working with the Manhattan Project at Site Y in Los Alamos, New Mexico, Tibbets selected Wendover for his training base over Great Bend, Kansas, and Mountain Home, Idaho because of its remoteness .	On 10 September 1944, the 393rd Bomb Squadron, a B-29 Superfortress unit, arrived at Wendover from the 504th Bombardment Group (Very Heavy) at Fairmont Army Air Base, Nebraska, where it had been in group training since 12 March.
noLabel	In 1980, Jim Corbett, Jim Dudley, John Fife and a handful of other residents of Tucson, Arizona began providing legal, financial and material aid to Central American refugees.	Their decision to do so—and therefore openly oppose federal law—was inspired by a mixture of shocking refugee stories, personal encounter, political sympathies and religious conviction.
noLabel	In 1954, the British Doctors Study, a study of some 40 thousand doctors over 20 years, confirmed the suggestion, based on which the government issued advice that smoking and lung cancer rates were related .	In January 1964, the United States Surgeon General's Report on Smoking and Health likewise began suggesting the relationship between smoking and cancer. 
noLabel	There has been some controversy over a drug dealing minigame  along with comments that some Nintendo games are being aimed at children (despite the fact that the game was rated Mature).	The drug dealing mini-game allows players to peddle six types of drugs around the city, but the profit the player makes depends on market conditions, which will be based on the area in which they deal, and the level of regular service this area receives from them . 
noLabel	This type of school is not only intended to accommodate students who are considered at risk of failing academically, but also students of all academic levels and abilities who are better served by a non-traditional program.	Many programs are specifically intended for students with special educational needs, but others address primarily social problems that affect students, such as teenage parenthood or homelessness. 
noLabel	Although England, Ireland and Scotland became constitutional monarchies, after the reigns of Charles II and his brother James II & VII, and with the ascension of William and Mary to the English, Irish and Scottish thrones as a result of the Glorious Revolution of 1688, there have been movements throughout the last few centuries whose aims were to remove the monarchy and establish a republican system.	A notable period was the time in the late 18th century and early 19th century when many Radicals such as the minister Joseph Fawcett were openly republican . 
noLabel	It has also been argued that rates of major crimes also dropped in many other U.S. cities during the 1990s, both those that had adopted "zero-tolerance" policies and those that had not .	In the Winter 2006 edition of the University of Chicago Law Review, Bernard Harcourt and Jens Ludwig looked at the later Department of Housing and Urban Development program that re-housed inner-city project tenants in New York into more orderly neighborhoods .
noLabel	Of all the areas of the world that scholars have claimed to be adversely affected by imperialism, Africa is probably the most notable.	In the expansive "age of imperialism" of the nineteenth century, scholars have argued that European colonization in Africa has led to the elimination of many various cultures, worldviews, and epistemologies .
noLabel	After the 1972 retirement of IOC President Avery Brundage, the Olympic amateurism rules were steadily relaxed and in many areas amount only to technicalities and lip service.	In the United States, the Amateur Sports Act of 1978 prohibits national governing bodies from having more stringent standards of amateur status than required by international governing bodies of respective sports. 
noLabel	By contrast, three separate polls taken when Papademos assumed office revealed that around 75% of Greeks thought that temporary, emergency technocratic rule was "positive" .	The EU insisted that whichever government was elected after Papademos in 2012, it must be bound to honour the agreed upon EU-IMF austerity strategy .
noLabel	Although the characterization of the game's avatar will develop through storytelling, characters may also become more functionally powerful by gaining new skills, weapons, and magic.	This creates a positive-feedback cycle that is central to most role-playing games: The player grows in power, allowing them to overcome more difficult challenges, and gain even more power .
noLabel	In his paper, Understanding Why Crime Fell in the 1990s: Four Factors that Explain the Decline and Six that Do not, University of Chicago economist Steven Levitt argues that available data indicate that neither stricter gun control laws nor more liberal concealed carry laws have had any significant effect on the decline in crime in the 1990s.	While the debate remains hotly disputed, it is therefore not surprising that a comprehensive review of published studies of gun control, released in November 2004 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, was unable to determine any reliable statistically significant effect resulting from such laws, although the authors suggest that further study may provide more conclusive information. 
noLabel	Game players create user modifications (mods), which in some cases become just as popular, maybe even more popular, as the original game created.	An example of this is the game Counter-strike, which began as a mod of the video game Half-Life and eventually became a published game in its own right that was very successful. 
noLabel	While the rate of sedimentation varies for each dam and each river, eventually all reservoirs develop a reduced water-storage capacity due to the exchange of storage space for sediment .	Diminished storage capacity results in decreased ability to produce hydroelectric power, reduced availability of water for irrigation, and if left unaddressed, may ultimately result in the expiration of the dam and river .
noLabel	The Financial Times called the attack a "brazen act of piracy," that dealt a blow to the legitimacy of Israel's struggle.	The paper continued that "Israel claims the activists had links with extremist groups and that some attacked Israeli soldiers with knives and sticks (and in some accounts the odd light firearm).
noLabel	An underground power station makes use of a large natural height difference between two waterways, such as a waterfall or mountain lake.	An underground tunnel is constructed to take water from the high reservoir to the generating hall built in an underground cavern near the lowest point of the water tunnel and a horizontal tailrace taking water away to the lower outlet waterway.
noLabel	The United Nations had concluded that women often experience a "glass ceiling" and that there are no societies in which women enjoy the same opportunities as men .	The term "glass ceiling" is used to describe a perceived barrier to advancement in employment based on discrimination, especially sex discrimination . 
noLabel	Beginning with the 1921 Packers and Stockyards Act and 1922 Capper-Volstead Act, which regulated livestock and protected farmer cooperatives against anti-trust suits, United States agricultural policy began to become more and more comprehensive.	In reaction to falling grain prices and the widespread economic turmoil of the Dust Bowl and Great Depression, three bills led the United States into permanent price subsidies for farmers: the 1922 Grain Futures Act, the 1929 Agricultural Marketing Act, and finally the 1933 Agricultural Adjustment Act- the first comprehensive food policy legislation.
noLabel	Although the Church originally condoned these proceedings, they were difficult to regulate, and abuses eventually caused the Pope to call for an end to them.	In spite of (relatively rare) instances of torture and wrongful execution, it was still widely considered in Europe to be the fairest (and most merciful) judicial system in Europe at that time, as evidenced by records of people blaspheming in secular courts intentionally for them to be brought before the Inquisition for a more just and fair trial .
noLabel	Some of the programs this campaign includes increasing early childhood education and guidance, as well as increasing health and mental health coverage and counseling .	To date, many states have responded to this campaign by forming coalitions and holding conventions in which they formulate ideas and tactics to dismantle the pipeline .
noLabel	In the 17th century, liberal ideas began to influence governments in Europe, in nations such as The Netherlands, Switzerland, England and Poland, but they were strongly opposed, often by armed might, by those who favored absolute monarchy and established religion.	In the 18th century, in America, the first modern liberal state was founded, without a monarch or a hereditary aristocracy .
noLabel	The formation of a global citizens movement would lead to the establishment of democratic global institutions, creating the space for global political discourse and decisions, would in turn reinforce the notion of citizenship at a global level.	Nested structures of governance balancing the principles of irreducibility (i.e., the notion that certain problems can only be addressed at the global level, such as global warming) and subsidiarity (i.e., the notion that decisions should be made at as local a level possible) would thus form the basis for a cosmopolitan political order . 
noLabel	Conversely, nationalism might also be portrayed as collective identities toward imagined communities which are not naturally expressed in language, race or religion but rather socially constructed by the very individuals that belong to a given nation .	These new elements of the nation are commonly presented as long standing and natural, and have been called invented traditions by the historian E.J.
noLabel	In 2004, the United Kingdom's Butler Review recognized the "considerable and long-standing academic debate about the proper interpretation of the phrase ‘weapons of mass destruction’".	The committee set out to avoid the general term but when using it, employed the definition of United Nations Security Council Resolution 687, which defined the systems which Iraq was required to abandon:
noLabel	Since the 1970s, Brazil has had an ethanol fuel program which has allowed the country to become the world's second largest producer of ethanol (after the United States) and the world's largest exporter .	Brazil’s ethanol fuel program uses modern equipment and cheap sugarcane as feedstock, and the residual cane-waste (bagasse) is used to produce heat and power .
noLabel	For next few weeks, government, media http://www.tehelka.com/story_main39.asp?filename=cr050708laterdayslave.asp and NGOs were in a frenzy over the astonishing number of young boys, as young as 5–6 year olds, released from bondage.	This rescue operation opened the eyes of the world to the menace of child labour operating right under the nose of the largest democracy in the whole world. 
noLabel	It estimates that "in 2001, 1.1 billion people had consumption levels below $1 a day and 2.7 billion lived on less than $2 a day.	" A dollar a day, in nations that do not use the U.S. dollar as currency, does not translate to living a day on the amount of local currency as determined by the exchange rate .
noLabel	On January 24, 2007, in reference to his stated plan to take public financing should he procure the nomination, he said, "I think that for a time, the presidential public financing system works."	On November 27, he said, "I will aggressively pursue an agreement with the Republican nominee to preserve a publicly financed general election," and on February 28, 2008, he wrote that he planned to "aggressively pursue" a publicly financed campaign, later promising to sit down with John McCain to ensure "a public system" of campaign financing is preserved .
noLabel	After the Heller decision there was an increased amount of attention on whether or not the Second Amendment applied to the states.	That issue was decided in 2010 as part of McDonald v. Chicago where the Supreme Court held that it is incorporated.
noLabel	Every theory which refuses to ascribe to God an attribute which is essential to a worthy conception of His character is anti-theistic.	Only those theories which refuse to acknowledge that there is evidence even for the existence of a God are atheistic . 
noLabel	Each learning team is assigned a team forum where team members will discuss the project and submit their agreed upon portions of the learning team assignment for compilation by the nominated learning team leader.	The concept of learning teams is somewhat uncommon in traditional academia; however, the University of Phoenix believes that collaborating on projects and having individuals rely on each other reflects the real working conditions of the corporate world . 
noLabel	Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is often studied in connection with learning disabilities, but it is not actually included in the standard definitions of learning disabilities.	An individual with ADHD may struggle with learning, but he or she can often learn adequately once successfully treated for the ADHD.
noLabel	The sport would later resurface in England during the early 16th century in the form of bare-knuckle boxing sometimes referred to as prizefighting.	The first documented account of a bare-knuckle fight in England appeared in 1681 in the London Protestant Mercury, and the first English bare-knuckle champion was James Figg in 1719 .
noLabel	Mays spent most of July 31 drafting this legislation with four others: Almond; law partner Henry T. Wickham; Gray Commission staff member John B. Boatwright, Jr.; and George McIver "Mack" Lapsley (Director of the Division of Statutory Research and Drafting for the General Assembly) .	They considered a number of different ways to implement the pupil assignment plan, and decided to bring the various alternatives before the Gray Commission .
noLabel	The provisions for conscientious objection to the draft have also been viewed as unfairly discriminatory, favoring religious objection over non-religious objection.	Alternative mandatory service can assuage objections based on peace and non-violence but does nothing for those whose objections arise from strongly held convictions about freedom.
noLabel	They further claim that Greenspan actively sought to undermine the office of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, specifically under the leadership of Brooksley E. Born, when the Commission sought to initiate regulation of derivatives.	Ultimately, it was the collapse of a specific kind of derivative, the mortgage-backed security, that triggered the economic crisis of 2008. 
noLabel	Begin considered the diplomatic options fruitless, and worried that prolonging the decision to attack would lead to a fatal inability to act in response to the perceived threat .	According to Karl P. Mueller, in the spring of 1979, Begin had reached the conclusion that an anticipatory attack was necessary . 
noLabel	The following day clashes erupted between the Democratic Karen Buddhist Army (DKBA) and government forces in Myawaddy by the Thai border .	The fighting spilled over to the town of Three Pagodas Pass with reports that the DKBA had seized the town from the military.
noLabel	" It refused to allow the prosecution, stating "in the absence of any legislative definition of the constitutional offence of blasphemy, it is impossible to say of what the offence of blasphemy consists ..	In the absence of legislation and in the present uncertain state of the law the Court could not see its way to authorising the institution of a criminal prosecution" .
noLabel	On October 9, 2006, the North Korean government issued an announcement that it had successfully conducted a nuclear test for the first time.	Both the United States Geological Survey and Japanese seismological authorities detected an earthquake with a preliminary estimated magnitude of 4.3 in North Korea, corroborating some aspects of the North Korean claims . 
noLabel	The annual budget deficit is the difference between actual cash collections and budgeted spending (a partial measure of total spending) during a given fiscal year, which runs from October 1 to September 30.	Since 1970, the U.S. federal government has run deficits for all but four years (1998–2001) contributing to a total debt of $15.35 trillion as of January 2012 .
noLabel	Master of Public Health degrees broadly fall into two categories, those that put more emphasis on an understanding of epidemiology and statistics as the scientific basis of public health practice and those that include a more eclectic range of methodologies.	A Master of Science of Public Health is similar to an MPH but is considered an academic degree (as opposed to a professional degree) and places more emphasis on quantitative methods and research.
noLabel	The 20th and 21st centuries have seen the rise of presidential power under politicians such as Theodore Roosevelt, Wilson, FDR, Nixon, Reagan, and George W. Bush .	However, in recent years, Congress has restricted presidential power with laws such as the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 and the War Powers Resolution.
noLabel	The Summa Theologiæ (; also subsequently called the Summa Theologica or simply the Summa, written 1265&ndash;1274) is the best-known work of Thomas Aquinas (c.1225&ndash;1274), and although unfinished, "one of the classics of the history of philosophy and one of the most influential works of Western literature.	" It is intended as a manual for beginners in theology and a compendium of all of the main theological teachings of the Church.
noLabel	He finds a small, positive effect of concealed-carry laws on adult homicide rates, but states the effect is not statistically significant .	NAS suggests that new analytical approaches and datasets at the county or local level are needed to evaluate adequately the impact of right-to-carry laws . 
noLabel	South Africa developed a small nuclear arsenal in the 1980s but disassembled them in the early 1990s, making it the only country to have fully given up an independently developed nuclear weapons arsenal.	Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Ukraine inherited stockpiles of nuclear arms following the break-up of the Soviet Union, but relinquished them to the Russian Federation. 
noLabel	Within WikiLeaks, there has been public disagreement between founder and spokesperson Julian Assange and Daniel Domscheit-Berg, the site's former German representative who was suspended by Assange.	Domscheit-Berg announced on 28 September 2010 that he was leaving the organisation due to internal conflicts over management of the site .
noLabel	During the 1760s pre-revolutionary period, the established colonial militia was composed of colonists, which included a number who were loyal to British imperial rule.	As defiance and opposition to the British rule developed, a distrust of these Loyalists in the militia became widespread among the colonists, known as Patriots, who favored independence from British rule.
noLabel	The Edict of Nantes, issued on April 13, 1598, by Henry IV of France, granted Protestants – notably Calvinist Huguenots – substantial rights in a nation where Catholicism was the state religion.	The main concern was civil unity; The Edict separated civil law from religious rights, treated non-Catholics as more than mere schismatics and heretics for the first time, and opened a path for secularism and tolerance.
noLabel	On 4 February 2011, the attacker, named in court as Mohamed Geele, was sentenced to nine years in prison for attempting to commit an act of terrorism.	Geele appealed the sentence, claiming that he was attempting to scare Westergaard to make him "stop bragging about drawing the cartoon”, but was subsequently sentenced to 10 years imprisonment and permanent expulsion from Denmark by the High Court on June 22, 2011 .
noLabel	The position is sometimes summed up, in an extreme form, as "All votes for anyone other than the second place are votes for the winner", because by voting for other candidates, they have denied those votes to the second place candidate who could have won had they received them.	Following the 2000 U.S. presidential election, some supporters of Democratic candidate Al Gore believed he lost the extremely close election to Republican George W. Bush because a portion of the electorate (2.7%) voted for Ralph Nader of the Green Party, and exit polls indicated that more of these voters would have preferred Gore (45%) to Bush (27%), with the rest not voting in Nader's absence . 
noLabel	Despite the War Measures Act, the federal cabinet has power to censor the media by declaring a war emergency or an international emergency.	The Emergencies Act does require that the acknowledgment of an emergency be presented before Parliament within seven days where the Parliament can have a chance to revoke it.
noLabel	The IDF also claims that the practice is only used when there is a certainty in the identification of the target, in order to minimize harm to innocent bystanders .	They argue that because many of the Palestinians who have targeted Israel over the years have enjoyed the protection of Arab governments, extraditing them for trial in Israel has often proved impossible.
noLabel	Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) programs provide cash payments to poor households that meet certain behavioral requirements, generally related to improve their children's human capital, such regular school attendance and basic preventive health care.	The purpose of these programs is to address the inter-generational transmission of poverty and to foster social inclusion by explicitly targeting the poor, focusing on children, delivering transfers to women, and changing social accountability relationships between beneficiaries, service providers and governments . 
noLabel	Child Access Prevention (CAP) laws, enacted by many states, require parents to store firearms safely, to minimize access by children to guns, while maintaining ease of access by adults .	CAP laws hold gun owners liable should a child gain access to a loaded gun that is not properly stored .
noLabel	The UK Immigration Service officially ceased to exist as a distinct entity in 2007 when the former Immigration and Nationality Directorate was re-named to become the short lived Border and Immigration Agency and, although in 2011 the historic grades remain, they have no unifying command structure.	The work of front line border control and inland enforcement is now conducted by the same staff within the UK Border Agency, but with greatly changed working conditions and a range of duties that encompasses the work previously performed by HM Customs and Excise. 
noLabel	Due to the especially deep impact of tactical voting in first past the post electoral systems, some argue that systems with three or more strong or persistent parties become in effect forms of disapproval voting, where the expression of disapproval in order to keep an opponent out of office overwhelms the expression of approval to elect a desirable candidate.	Ralph Nader refers to this as the "least worst" choice, and argues that the similarity of parties and the candidates in first past the post systems grows stronger due to the need to avoid this disapproval.
noLabel	The rationale for, and the effect of, anti-discrimination law, adopted in many industrial countries beginning in the 1970s, has also been a topic of research .	Women did, in fact, move in large numbers into previous male bastions (especially professions such as medicine and law) during the last decades of the 20th century. 
noLabel	States are also obliged to ensure that their public services are subject to safeguards that promote efficiency, transparency and recruitment based on merit.	Once recruited, public servants should be bound by codes of conduct, requirements for financial and other disclosures, and appropriate disciplinary measures.
noLabel	Since the late 19th century, with three key cases from the pre-incorporation era, the Supreme Court consistently ruled that the Second Amendment (and the Bill of Rights) restricts only the federal Congress, and not the States, in the regulation of guns .	Scholars predicted that the Court's incorporation of other rights suggests that they may incorporate the Second, should a suitable case come before them . 
noLabel	"Bad" teens get together to talk about the "bad" things they've done, and it is received by their peers in a positive reinforcing light, promoting the behavior among them.	As mentioned before, peer groups, particularly an association with antisocial peer groups, is one of the biggest predictors of delinquency, and of life-course-persistent delinquency.
noLabel	Kearny, who was not a climate scientist himself, based his conclusions almost entirely on the 1986 paper "Nuclear Winter Reappraised" by Starley Thompson and Stephen Schneider.	However, a 1988 article by Brian Martin in Science and Public Policy states that although their paper concluded the effects would be less severe than originally thought, with the authors describing these effects as a "nuclear autumn", other statements by Thompson and Schneider show that they "resisted the interpretation that this means a rejection of the basic points made about nuclear winter".
noLabel	The cowboy archetype of individualist hero was established largely by Owen Wister in stories and novels, most notably "The Virginian" (1902), following close on the heels of Theodore Roosevelt's "The Winning of the West" (1889–1895), a history of the early frontier .	Cowboys were also popularized in turn of the 20th century cinema, notably through such early classics as "The Great Train Robbery" (1903) and "A California Hold Up" (1906)--the most commercially successful film of the pre-nickelodeon era . 
noLabel	Eurabia was originally the title of a newsletter published by the Comité européen de coordination des associations d'amitié avec le monde Arabe .	According to Bat Ye'or, it was published collaboratively with France-Pays Arabes (journal of the Association de solidarité franco-arabe or ASFA), Middle East International (London), and the Groupe d'Etudes sur le Moyen-Orient (Geneva) .
noLabel	Several commentators have objected to the characterization of criticism of Israel as anti-Semitism, including Michael P. Prior, Noam Chomsky, Norman Finkelstein, Michael Lerner, Antony Lerman, Ralph Nader, Jenny Tonge, Ken Livingstone, and Desmond Tutu.	They provide a variety of reasons for objecting to the equation, including stifling free expression, promoting anti-Semitism, diluting genuine anti-Semitism, and alienating Jews from Judaism or Israel.
noLabel	France, the Netherlands, and Morocco, as well as the World Bank, have been identified has having directly funded these activities .	The Bank of Africa is partly owned by France (through the Agence Française du Développement), the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFC), Netherlands Development Finance Company (FMO), and Banque Marocaine du Commerce Extérieur (BMCE Bank) in Morocco.
noLabel	Orincon, a defense contractor now owned by Lockheed Martin, grew slowly after it was founded in the mid-1970s by former UCSD professor Daniel Alspach.	In the late 1990s, after it signed on with Lowery's firm, the company's growth curve turned sharply upward: sales went from about $10 million per year to $52 million in 2003, when it was sold.
noLabel	Just after the bill was enacted, Krugman wrote that the stimulus was too small to deal with the problem, adding, "And it’s widely believed that political considerations led to a plan that was weaker and contains more tax cuts than it should have — that Mr. Obama compromised in advance in the hope of gaining broad bipartisan support.	" Other economists, including John Lott, Robert Barro and Nobel Memorial Prize-winners Robert Lucas, Jr., Vernon L. Smith, Edward C. Prescott and James M. Buchanan, were more critical of the government spending. 
noLabel	The broken windows theory is a criminological theory of the norm setting and signaling effect of urban disorder and vandalism on additional crime and anti-social behavior.	The theory states that monitoring and maintaining urban environments in a well-ordered condition may stop further vandalism and escalation into more serious crime. 
noLabel	The phrase "exclusive right" means that only the copyright holder is free to exercise those rights, and others are prohibited from using the work without the holders permission.	Copyright is sometimes called a "negative right", as it serves to prohibit certain people (e.g., readers, viewers, or listeners, and primarily publishers and would be publishers) from doing something they would otherwise be able to do, rather than permitting people (e.g., authors) to do something they would otherwise be unable to do.
noLabel	She asked the local priest to build a local chapel in Lourdes because the Lady with the Rosary beads had requested it.	Eventually, a number of chapels and churches were built at Lourdes as the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes - which is now a major Catholic pilgrimage site with about five million pilgrims a year .
noLabel	The 2009 mayoral election in Burlington, Vermont provides an example in which strategy theoretically could have worked but would have been unlikely in practice.	In that election, most supporters of the candidate who came in second (a Republican who led in first choices) preferred the Condorcet winner, a Democrat, to the IRV winner, the Progressive Party nominee.
noLabel	There has never been an adequately large randomized controlled trial showing definitively that HGH provides benefits to athletes and that there are no significant adverse drug reactions; there have been many small studies and several of these studies were recently reviewed and analyzed in a meta-analysis .	While the authors indicated that the meta-analysis was limited by the fact that few of the included studies evaluated athletic performance and by the fact that dosing protocols in the studies may not reflect real-world doses and regimens, their conclusions were as follows: "Claims that growth hormone enhances physical performance are not supported by the scientific literature.
noLabel	Civil libertarianism is not a complete ideology; rather, it is a collection of views on the specific issues of civil liberties and civil rights.	Because of this, a civil libertarian outlook is compatible with many other political philosophies, and civil libertarianism is found on both the right and left in modern politics .
noLabel	When the fission bomb is detonated, gamma and X-rays emitted first compress the fusion fuel, then heat it to thermonuclear temperatures.	The ensuing fusion reaction creates enormous numbers of high-speed neutrons, which can then induce fission in materials not normally prone to it, such as depleted uranium.
noLabel	Galileo's Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, Ptolemaic & Copernican was prohibited by the Catholic Church until 1835 containing, as it did, the heretical doctrine that the earth rotated about the sun.	Other books of note which have been banned include Voltaire’s Candide (US 1930), Thomas Paine’s Rights of Man (UK 1792), Jack London’s Call of the Wild (Italy 1929), Anna Sewell’s Black Beauty (South Africa 1955), E for Ecstasy (Australia 1994), Ernst Zündel’s Did Six Million Really Die?
noLabel	All conscripts, including conscientious objectors but excluding those exempt for other reasons, had to attend a medical examination ("Musterung") at the local county draft bureau ("Kreiswehrersatzamt").	Those who did not fulfill certain standards did not have to serve, neither in the military nor in a civilian service. 
noLabel	Square's Final Fantasy for the NES introduced side-view battles, with the player characters on the right and the enemies on the left, which soon became the norm for numerous console RPGs .	In 1988, Dragon Quest III introduced a character progression system allowing the player to change the party's character classes during the course of the game.
noLabel	It argues that potential attacking states are likely to draw reputational inferences about resolve from the past behaviour of defending states only under certain conditions.	The insight is the expectation that decision makers will use only certain types of information when drawing inferences about reputations, and an attacking state updates and revises its beliefs when the unanticipated behaviour of a defending state cannot be explained by case-specific variables. 
noLabel	As well as reducing rich-country GDP through lost jobs, competitive pressures will undermine democracy by creating pressures to lower wage demands, and protections like environmental and safety standards.	The "race to the bottom" is blamed on international competition to attract traded-goods production, which, with Free Trade, can be sited anywhere.
noLabel	Non-ASEAN countries have criticised ASEAN for being too soft in its approach to promoting human rights and democracy in the junta-led Burma .	Despite global outrage at the military crack-down on peaceful protesters in Yangon, ASEAN has refused to suspend Burma as a member and also rejects proposals for economic sanctions .
noLabel	The cities of the games can also be roamed freely at any point in the game, and are examples of open world video game environments which offer accessible buildings with minor missions in addition to the main storyline.	There are exceptions: missions follow a linear, overarching plot, and some city areas must be unlocked over the course of the game. 
noLabel	On the negative side, the incidence of cancer, cerebrovascular disease, and heart disease has increased to the extent that these have become the leading causes of death.	Economic reforms initiated in the late 1970s fundamentally altered methods of providing health care; the collective medical care system has been gradually replaced by a more individual-oriented approach. 
noLabel	Cannabis smoking was introduced to Sub-Saharan Africa through Ethiopia and the east African coast by either Indian or Arab traders in the 13th century or earlier and spread on the same trade routes as those that carried coffee, which originated in the highlands of Ethiopia .	It was smoked in calabash water pipes with terra cotta smoking bowls, apparently an Ethiopian invention which was later conveyed to eastern, southern and central Africa. 
noLabel	After the atomic bombings of Japan, many scientists at Los Alamos rebelled against the notion of creating a weapon thousands of times more powerful than the first atomic bombs.	For the scientists the question was in part technical&mdash;the weapon design was still quite uncertain and unworkable&mdash;and in part moral: such a weapon, they argued, could only be used against large civilian populations, and could thus only be used as a weapon of genocide. 
noLabel	Circumcision is part of initiation rites in some African, Pacific Islander, and Australian aboriginal traditions in areas such as Arnhem Land, where the practice was introduced by Makassan traders from Sulawesi in the Indonesian Archipelago .	Circumcision ceremonies among certain Australian aboriginal societies are noted for their painful nature: subincision is practised amongst some aboriginal peoples in the Western Desert . 
noLabel	In 2005, research has shown that Israeli youths have begun to use bidis and hookah, as alternative methods of tobacco use .	In 1990, smoking was the cause of about 1,800 male deaths in Israel which was around 12% of all male deaths .
noLabel	If preferential ballots are not used, the spoiler candidate takes votes away from the viable similar candidate (an effect called vote splitting).	In some cases, even though the spoiler candidate cannot win themselves, their influence upon the voters may allow them to deliberately determine which of the viable candidates wins the election—a situation known as a kingmaker scenario. 
noLabel	The Arab Physicians Union officials submitted a request to Egyptian authorities on 3 June 2010 to send 400 tons of food, blankets, electric generators for hospitals and construction material from Egypt to Gaza, but their request was denied by Egyptian authorities without specific reason.	Emad Gad, political analyst at Egyptian Al-Ahram Center for Political and Strategic Studies, believes the government should keep the Rafah border under control because opening it completely could allow weapons smuggling or illegal financial transactions . 
noLabel	Only Chile and Mexico have larger average income disparities between the top 10% and bottom 10% of the population with 26:1 and 23:1, respectively.	Consequently, the United States has the fourth highest Gini Coefficient of the OECD countries at 40.8% which is lower than Chile's (52%), Mexico's (51%), and just lower than Turkey's (42%). 
noLabel	Limit or avoid future spending increases: Policy choices may focus on preventing future increases via freezes or reducing annual rates of increase, as federal spending has not declined year-over-year in nominal dollars since at least 1970.	Annual growth rates since 2001 in the top three expenditure categories (Healthcare, Social Security, and Defense) are far above the economic growth rate. 
noLabel	Scandals involving lobbying have helped taint the image of the profession, such as ones involving Jack Abramoff, Randy "Duke" Cunningham, and Bob Nye and others, and which featured words such as "bribery", "lobbyist", "member of Congress" and "prison" tending to appear together in the same articles .	Negative publicity can sully lobbying's image to a great extent: high-profile cases of lobbying fraud such as Abramoff's; dubious father-son exchange-of-favors ties; public officials such as Newt Gingrich being accused and then denying accusations of having done lobbying and earning $1.6 million from "strategic advice" .
noLabel	Currently, the consensus among major Islamic schools is that apostasy (leaving Islam) is considered treason and that the penalty is death; this is supported not in the Quran but in the Hadith .	This confusion between apostasy and treason almost certainly had its roots in the Ridda Wars, in which an army of rebel traitors led by the self-proclaimed prophet Musaylima attempted to destroy the caliphate of Abu Bakr. 
noLabel	During the many 20th century spy scandals, much information became publicly known about national spy agencies and dozens of real-life secret agents.	These sensational stories piqued public interest in a profession largely off-limits to human interest news reporting, a natural consequence of the secrecy inherent to their work.
noLabel	J. Joe Ricketts (born July 16, 1941) is the founder, former CEO and former chairman of TD Ameritrade, one of the largest online discount brokerages in the world, based in Omaha, Nebraska .	In addition to serving as a Director of TD Ameritrade, Ricketts owns and operates several early stage companies, including DNAinfo.com, The American Film Company, High Plains Bison, and The Lodge at Jackson Fork Ranch.
noLabel	The United States claimed Iran's activities could be linked to the development of a military nuclear capability and that the activities were of "great concern" .	The U.S. specifically said it would continue "to address the threats posed by Iran, including those related to its missile and nuclear programs.
noLabel	Smoke is produced by incomplete combustion of tobacco during which at least three kinds of chemical reactions occur: pyrolysis breaks down organic molecules into simpler ones, pyrosynthesis recombines these newly formed fragments into chemicals not originally present, and distillation moves compounds such as nicotine from the tobacco into the smoke.	For every gram of tobacco smoked, a cigar emits about 120–140&nbsp;mg of carbon dioxide, 40–60&nbsp;mg of carbon monoxide, 3–4&nbsp;mg of isoprene, 1&nbsp;mg each of hydrogen cyanide and acetaldehyde, and smaller quantities of a large spectrum of volatile N-nitrosamines and volatile organic compounds, with the detailed composition unknown . 
noLabel	Because of the lack of a Palestinian state entity-partner, the majority of the sums were channeled through PNGOs or INGOs .	Although the stance of the donors during the pre-Oslo period is regarded by some analysts, such as Rex Brynen, as controversial and linked with phenomena, such as corruption, nationalism and factional rivalries, international aid effectively financed a series of programs in the sectors of agriculture, infrastructure, housing and education .
noLabel	Historians debate Smith's motivation—was it a cynical attempt to defeat the bill by someone opposed to both civil rights for blacks and women, or did he support women's rights and was attempting to improve the bill by broadening it to include women?	 Smith expected that Republicans, who had included equal rights for women in their party's platform since 1944, would probably vote for the amendment.
noLabel	Even though research suggests that there is a chance people will speak out with their opinions more often in an online setting, silencing of views can still occur.	It might be worth researching whether these factors, or other factors cause online communication to be more comfortable to speak one’s mind.
noLabel	Pelosi said she would not take any action against Rangel pending further committee findings, as his staff had been more at fault and he had not broken any law .	The Ethics Committee continued to investigate the charges against Rangel relating to obtaining rent-stabilized apartments, fundraising, and failure to disclose rental income from his Dominican villa .
noLabel	Opponents of a restrictive interpretation of the Second Amendment point out that at the time of the Second Amendment in the late 18th century, the word "militia" meant all able-bodied male citizens between the ages of 17 and 45.	Even today, the United States Code states that the militia is all male citizens and resident aliens at least 17 up to 45 with or without military service experience, including additionally those under 64 having former military service experience, as well as including female citizens who are members of the National Guard .
noLabel	But a new remedy was introduced with the extension of the criminal law, under which many kinds of defamation were punished with great severity.	At the same time increased importance attached to the publication of defamatory books and writings, the libri or libelli famosi, from which we derive our modern use of the word libel; and under the later emperors the latter term came to be specially applied to anonymous accusations or pasquils, the dissemination of which was regarded as particularly dangerous, and visited with very severe punishment, whether the matter contained in them were true or false.
noLabel	Pope Benedict's main arena for pastoral activity is the Vatican itself, his Christmas and Easter homilies and Urbi et Orbi are delivered from St Peter's Basilica.	The Vatican is also the only regular place where the Pope travels via motor without the protective bulletproof case common to most popemobiles.
noLabel	Families are such an important part of the premium cigar industry that the term "cigar family" is a registered trademark of the Arturo Fuente and J.C. Newman families, used to distinguish and identify their families, premium cigar brands, and charitable foundation.	Even the premium cigars made by the cigar industry's two corporate conglomerates, Altadis and Swedish Match, are overseen by members of two cigar families, Altadis' Benjamin Menendez and Swedish Match's Ernesto Perez-Carrillo.
noLabel	Action will be taken against those who violate this order," the broadcasts said, invoking a law allowing the use of military force to break up illegal protests .	Reuters reported that the detained democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to the Insein prison on Sunday, a day after she appeared in front of her house to greet marching monks . 
noLabel	Over the first 200 years of U.S. agricultural history, until the 1920s, agricultural policy in the United States was dominated by developmental policy — policy directed at developing and supporting family farms and the inputs of the total agricultural sector, such as land, research, and human labor.	Developmental policy included such legislation as the Land Act of 1820, the Homestead Act, which granted townships, and the Morrill Act of 1862, which initiated the land-grant college system, one in a long series of acts that provided public support for agricultural research and education.
noLabel	A 2005 analysis of these costs in the USA concluded that cropland imposes approximately $5 to 16 billion ($30 to $96 per hectare), while livestock production imposes $714 million .	Both studies concluded that more should be done to internalize external costs, and neither included subsidies in their analysis, but noted that subsidies also influence the cost of agriculture to society.
noLabel	The three inputs required for production are labour, land (i.e., natural resources, which exist prior to human beings) and capital goods.	Capitalism entails the private ownership of the latter two — natural resources and capital goods — by a class of owners called capitalists, either individually, collectively or through a state apparatus that operates for a profit or serves the interests of capital owners. 
noLabel	However, comprehensive programs differ from abstinence-only programs in that they also encourage the use of condoms or other forms of contraception.	Abstinence-only programs are much more conservative and limited in scope, teaching abstinence from sex, usually until marriage, as a means of avoiding the risk of pregnancy and STDs and of enjoying other considered benefits such as a more unique sexual bond with one's ultimate partner.
noLabel	They compared these "unwanted" children to another group – the next children born after each of the unwanted children at the hospital.	The "unwanted" children were more likely to grow up in adverse conditions, such as having divorced parents or being raised in foster homes and were more likely to become delinquents and engaged in crime .
noLabel	Rhee inherited a troubled system; there had been six school chiefs in the previous 10 years, students historically had below-average scores on standardized tests, and according to Rhee, only 8% of eighth graders were at grade level in mathematics .	The D.C. schools were performing poorly despite having the advantage of the third highest spending per student in the US . 
noLabel	Where water is taken from a river of variable quality or quantity, bank-side reservoirs may be constructed to store the water pumped or siphoned from the river.	Such reservoirs are usually built partly by excavation and partly by the construction of a complete encircling bund or embankment which may exceed 6&nbsp;km in circumference .
noLabel	In response to a declining birth rate, Canada has increased the per capita immigration rate to one of the highest in the world.	The economic impact of immigration to Canada is discussed as being positive by most of the Canadian media and almost all Canadian politicians. 
noLabel	A person who writes a letter to a congressperson, or even questions a candidate at a political meeting, could be construed as being a lobbyist .	And a retired school administrator from Ohio who met with House Speaker John Boehner in 2011 to discuss social security could be considered as a lobbyist, in this sense of the term . 
noLabel	The Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act passed by Congress in 1993 imposed a waiting period before the purchase of a handgun, allowing a background check .	The Brady Act also required the establishment of a national system to provide instant criminal background checks, with checks to be done by firearms dealers .
noLabel	The lower floors were typically occupied by either shops or wealthy families, while the upper storeys were rented out to the lower classes .	Surviving Oxyrhynchus Papyri indicate that seven-storey buildings even existed in provincial towns, such as in 3rd century AD Hermopolis in Roman Egypt . 
noLabel	For many decades, rubber condoms were manufactured by wrapping strips of raw rubber around penis-shaped molds, then dipping the wrapped molds in a chemical solution to cure the rubber .	The earliest rubber condoms covered only the glans of the penis; a doctor had to measure each man and order the correct size.
noLabel	From 2001-2010 FE in England was managed by the Learning and Skills Council (LSC), the then largest government agency funding education provision.	The LSC had a budget of some £13 billion and is organised on a regional basis through around 47 local councils.
noLabel	In the context of secondary school education, the way facts and history are presented greatly influences the interpretation of contemporary thought, opinion and socialization.	One argument for censoring the type of information disseminated is based on the inappropriate quality of such material for the young.
noLabel	Additional points (with no maximum at the highest levels of competition) can be earned depending on the difficulty of the moves and the length of time taken to complete the ten skills which is an indication of the average height of the jumps.	In high level competitions, there are two preliminary routines, one which has only two moves scored for difficulty and one where the athlete is free to perform any routine.
noLabel	During that time, they are typically living without proper legal documents – making it nearly impossible for them to find a job outside of the local food markets.	According to the United Nations, until recognized as refugees by the state, asylum seekers cannot enjoy such rights as “legal employment, healthcare, housing assistance and social benefits” - and even the right to register marriages and births . 
noLabel	has no evidence to date of performance-enhancing drug use by our players, we recognize the concerns regarding drug use in sport and the need to have a clear policy and program in place, said L.P.G.A.	Commissioner Carolyn Bivens, who announced the plan Wednesday during a news conference at the ADT Championship at Trump International Golf Club.
noLabel	However, comments that the Communist Party feel uncomfortable with are cut out and replaced with TV commercials before they can reach consumers TVs in mainland China.	Very few Western films are given permission to play in Chinese theatres, although widespread unlicensed copying of these films makes them widely available.
noLabel	As per the most recent study, Bosnjaci u Jasenovackom logoru ("Bosniaks in Jasenovac concentration camp") by the author Nihad Halilbegovic, at least 103,000 Bosniaks (Bosnian Muslim Slavs) perished during Holocaust at the hands of the Nazi regime and Croatian Ustaše.	According to the study "unknown is the full number of Bosniaks who were murdered under Serb or Croat alias or national name" and "large numbers of Bosniaks were killed and listed under Roma populations", therefore in advance sentenced to death and extermination . 
noLabel	This would mean that the leaders of the Church, acting with extreme imprudence, had condemned thousands of innocent human acts, forbidding, under pain of eternal damnation, a practice which would now be sanctioned.	The fact can neither be denied nor ignored that these same acts would now be declared licit on the grounds of principles cited by the Protestants, which popes and bishops have either condemned or at least not approved .
noLabel	The country has a multi-party system in which many of its legislative practices derive from the unwritten conventions of and precedents set by Great Britain's Westminster Parliament.	However, Canada has evolved variations: party discipline in Canada is stronger than in the United Kingdom and more parliamentary votes are considered motions of confidence, which tends to diminish the role of non-Cabinet Members of Parliament (MPs).
noLabel	Freedom of the press or freedom of the media is the freedom of communication and expression through vehicles including various electronic media and published materials.	While such freedom mostly implies the absence of interference from an overreaching state, its preservation may be sought through constitutional or other legal protections. 
noLabel	In light of that, the model escrow statute requires an NPM selling cigarettes in [*1122] a given state to do one of two things: 1) join the MSA, agreeing to "become a participating manufacturer (as that term is defined in section II(jj) of the [MSA]) and generally perform its financial obligations under the [MSA]," or 2) make similar annual payments into the state's escrow fund .	An NPM's annual escrow payments in a particular state are calculated by multiplying a per-cigarette amount, established by the state's legislature and set forth in the statute, by the number of cigarettes the NPM sold in that state in the year for which payment is being made .
noLabel	Patients may be released from the hospital to the care of a trusted person with orders to return if they display worsening symptoms or those that might indicate an emergent condition, like unconsciousness or altered mental status; convulsions; severe, persistent headache; extremity weakness; vomiting; or new bleeding or deafness in either or both ears .	Repeated observation for the first 24&nbsp;hours after concussion is recommended; however it is not known whether it is necessary to wake the patient up every few hours .
noLabel	Although meritocracy as a term is a relatively recent invention, the concept originates from the works of Confucius, along with other Legalist and Confucian philosophers.	The first meritocracy was implemented in the 2nd century BC, by the Han Dynasty, which introduced the world's first civil service exams evaluating the "merit" of officials .
noLabel	Ali states in his 1975 autobiography that he threw his Olympic gold medal into the Ohio River after being refused service at a 'whites-only' restaurant, and fighting with a white gang .	Whether this is true is still debated, although he was given a replacement medal at a basketball intermission during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, where he lit the torch to start the games.
noLabel	Instead, from the second half of the 19th century, France concentrated on the establishment of French Indochina and the conflicts with China leading to the Sino-French War.	Following the end of World War II, ambassador-level diplomatic relationships between France and Burma were established in 1948, soon after the Burmese nation became an independent republic on January 4, 1948, as Union of Burma, with Sao Shwe Thaik as its first President and U Nu as its first Prime Minister.
noLabel	Nalanda, an ancient center of higher learning in Bihar, India was sacked by Turkic Muslim invaders under Bakhtiyar Khalji in 1193.	The great library of Nalanda University was so vast that it is reported to have burned for three months after the invaders set fire to it, sacked and destroyed the monasteries, and drove the monks from the site. 
noLabel	Socialists argue that welfare states and modern social democratic policies limit the incentive system of the market by providing things such as minimum wages, unemployment insurance, taxing profits and reducing the reserve army of labor, resulting in capitalists have little incentive to invest; in essence, social welfare policies cripple the capitalist system and increase poverty.	By implementing public or cooperative ownership of the means of production, socialists believe there will be no need for a welfare state .
noLabel	Most Palestinian refugees – those in the West Bank, Gaza Strip, Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan – do not come within the responsibility of the UNHCR, but instead come under an older body, the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA).	But Palestinian refugees outside of UNRWA's area of operations do fall under UNHCR's mandate, if they meet the UNHCR's more limited definition of refugee.
noLabel	Tracking is the practice of dividing students at the primary or secondary school level into separate classes, depending if the student is high, average, or low achievers.	It also offers different curriculum paths for students headed for college and for those who are bound directly for the workplace or technical schools.
noLabel	In 1955, 55% of Americans worked in services, between 30% and 35% in industry, and between 10% and 15% in agriculture.	By 1980, over 65% were employed in services, between 25% and 30% in industry, and less than 5% in agriculture .
noLabel	In the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, European immigration to the US became increasingly diverse and increased substantially in numbers.	Beginning in the 1890s, large numbers of Southern and Eastern European immigrant groups such as the Italians, Jews, and Poles arrived.
noLabel	In 1988 a debate within the Catholic Church over the use of condoms to prevent AIDS sparked an intervention from Rome.	The Church in 1968 had already stated in Humanae Vitae that chemical and barrier methods of contraception went against Church teachings.
noLabel	While the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP15) was taking place in Copenhagen, Brazil's National Electric Energy Agency (ANEEL) held the country's first ever wind-only energy auction.	On December 14, around 1,800 megawatts (MW) were contracted with energy from 71 wind power plants scheduled to be delivered beginning July 1, 2012.
noLabel	The Executive Order also required contractors with 50 or more employees and contracts of $50,000 or more to implement affirmative action plans to increase the participation of minorities and women in the workplace if a workforce analysis demonstrates their under-representation, meaning that there are fewer minorities and women than would be expected given the numbers of minorities and women qualified to hold the positions available.	Federal regulations require affirmative action plans to include an equal opportunity policy statement, an analysis of the current work force, identification of under-represented areas, the establishment of reasonable, flexible goals and timetables for increasing employment opportunities, specific action-oriented programs to address problem areas, support for community action programs, and the establishment of an internal audit and reporting system. 
noLabel	Between the early 1970s and late 1990s, prevalence of childhood obesity doubled or tripled in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Japan, the UK, and the USA .	A 2010 article from the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition analyzed global prevalence from 144 countries in preschool children (less than 5 years old) .
noLabel	Following Goldstone's objection, the mandate was informally widened to cover activities by Palestinian militants as well, and this was the formulation quoted by the final report .	Its mandate was "to investigate all violations of international human rights law and international humanitarian law that might have been committed at any time in the context of the military operations that were conducted in Gaza during the period from 27 December 2008 and 18 January 2009, whether before, during or after. 
noLabel	George Brown, founder of the Globe newspaper (forerunner of today's Globe and Mail) and a Father of Confederation wrote that the position of Canada West had become "a base vassalage to French-Canadian Priestcraft."	 For its part, the French Canadians distrusted the growing anti-Catholic 'British' population of Canada West and sought a structure that could provide at least some control over its own affairs through a Provincial legislature founded on principles of responsible government. 
noLabel	Dawkins first visits the shrine of Lourdes in southern France, where he joins a candlelit procession of pilgrims singing, "Laudate Mariam!"	He is particularly struck by the sense of group solidarity in their perceived delusion, which he contrasts with the lonely delusion that one is Napoleon, for example.
noLabel	Even though no modern republicans advocate a republic modelled on Cromwell's Protectorate, some  point out that a Republican Commonwealth of England, Ireland and Scotland has already been tried when Oliver Cromwell installed it on 30 January 1649.	Yet by February 1657 some people  argued that Cromwell should assume the crown as it would stabilise the constitution, limit his powers and restore precedent.
noLabel	In 2006, in response to the suicide of a girl after she was sexually molested in school, the Polish Minister of Education, Roman Giertych, launched a "zero tolerance" school reform .	Under this plan, teachers would have the legal status of civil servants, making violent crimes against them punishable by higher penalties.
noLabel	With the Mérida Initiative set to expire on September 30, 2010, the U.S. State Department has proposed a major renewal and expansion of the program.	If approved, starting in 2011, $310 million would be granted to Mexico, another $100 million for the Central American Regional Security Initiative (CARSI), and $79 million for the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI) .
noLabel	Arron Way in Corby was a large estate, although the majority of the housing became derelict and the area is now undergoing regeneration.	Other large estates across London include Ashburton estate in Putney, Alton Estate in Roehampton, Churchill Gardens in Pimlico, Aylesbury Estate in Walworth, a vast series of estates in Gospel Oak (especially around Queen's Crescent Market) including the Bacton, Wendling, Lamble Street, Southfleet, Denton, Kiln Place, North Kentish Town and the Ludham and Waxham estates, plus the Ferrier Estate, and the Thamesmead Estate in South-East London. 
noLabel	Cadillac chose to advertise in the movie The Matrix Reloaded, which as a result contained many scenes in which Cadillac cars were used.	Similarly, product placement for Omega Watches, Ford, VAIO, BMW and Aston Martin cars are featured in recent James Bond films, most notably Casino Royale.
noLabel	It will expire at the end of 2012 and now credits 2.2₡ per kWh for electricity produced by wind power .	The PTC has been a major incentive for wind power, and has helped to spur independent wind energy power producers .
noLabel	The use of condoms and other safe sex practices is advocated only if it is not possible to remain with a single sexual partner.	Advocating this ideal, whilst pragmatically dealing with the fact that abstinence only sex education is ineffective by itself, has made the ABC approach more palatable to many African governments and relief agencies . 
noLabel	British troops used 72&nbsp;million amphetamine tablets in the Second World War and the RAF got through so many that "Methedrine won the Battle of Britain" according to one report .	The problem was that amphetamine leads to a lack of judgement and a willingness to take risks, which in sport could lead to better performances but in fighters and bombers led to more crash landings than the RAF could tolerate.
noLabel	Addiction to a prohibited drug may not be considered a legitimate reason for using it, even if the drug is obtained from a licensed source, or a substitute may be provided, for example, methadone instead of heroin.	Generally, however, those addicted to prohibited drugs are expected to find other ways of coping with their addictions, or to risk suffering the law enforcement penalties associated with illegal possession.
noLabel	The Cougars opened the season with a 20–14 victory over #3 Pittsburgh, and won the Holiday Bowl against a 6–5 Michigan team that had been ranked as high as #2 that season.	As the #4 ranked team at the end of the regular season, the University of Washington Huskies were offered a slot against BYU in the Holiday Bowl; Washington declined, preferring instead to play in the more lucrative Orange Bowl where they beat #2 Oklahoma to complete a Pac-10 sweep of New Year's Day bowls (USC Rose and UCLA Fiesta).
noLabel	Fine Gael and the Labour Party entered in to a coalition government with one another, and Fine Gael's leaders have vowed to re-negotiate the terms of the IMF bailout so that austerity can be slowed or stopped and the Irish economy can be given a chance to grow again .	Sinn Féin, which for the first time also won a notable percentage in the election, has called for a nationwide referendum over whether the bailout agreement should be scrapped altogether, but this suggestion has been met with dismissal by officials . 
noLabel	In a highly-cited 1973 article in the Yale Law Journal, Professor John Hart Ely criticized Roe as a decision which "is not constitutional law and gives almost no sense of an obligation to try to be.	" Ely added: "What is frightening about Roe is that this super-protected right is not inferable from the language of the Constitution, the framers’ thinking respecting the specific problem in issue, any general value derivable from the provisions they included, or the nation’s governmental structure."
noLabel	The newly popularized concept of the melting pot was frequently equated with "Americanization", meaning cultural assimilation, by many "old stock" Americans.	In Henry Ford's Ford English School (established in 1914), the graduation ceremony for immigrant employees involved symbolically stepping off an immigrant ship and passing through the melting pot, entering at one end in costumes designating their nationality and emerging at the other end in identical suits and waving American flags .
noLabel	Today the most prominent English football clubs that are not professional are semi-professional (paying part-time players more than the old maximum for top professionals; this includes all the major existing women's clubs, in which full professionalism has not taken root yet) and the most prominent true amateur men's club is probably Queens Park F.C.	The oldest football club in Scotland, founded in 1867 and with a home ground which is one of the twenty-nine UEFA five-star stadia.
noLabel	Two members of Human Rights Defenders and Promoters, Maung Maung Lay, 37, and Myint Naing, 40, were hospitalized with head injuries following attacks by more than 50 people while the two were working in Hinthada township, Irrawaddy Division in mid-April.	On Sunday, 22 April 2007, eight people were arrested by plainclothes police, members of the pro-junta Union Solidarity and Development Association, and the Pyithu Swan Arr Shin (a paramilitary group) while demonstrating peacefully in a Rangoon suburb.
noLabel	In 2011, Nelson was named one of the wealthiest members of Congress, with an estimated net worth of at least $6.6 million.	He owns investment and rental properties in Nebraska, in Washington, and in Chicago; he and his wife both have significant holdings of Berkshire Hathaway stock .
noLabel	Presently, there is a steep income difference between "buraku" and "non-buraku" people ranging at about one million yen, or $10,000 income per year less than the Japanese mainstream.	Lately however, there has been some awareness of the mistreatment of the Buraku and some measures have been taken to provide these people with better education and housing situations. 
noLabel	The content of school textbooks is often the issue of debate, since their target audience is young people, and the term "whitewashing" is the one commonly used to refer to removal of critical or conflicting events.	The reporting of military atrocities in history is extremely controversial, as in the case of The Holocaust (or Holocaust denial), Bombing of Dresden, the Nanking Massacre as found with Japanese history textbook controversies, the Armenian Genocide, the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, and the Winter Soldier Investigation of the Vietnam War. 
noLabel	The autonomy properties of FOSS make it useful for DoD applications such as rapid responses to cyberattacks, for which slow, low-security external update processes are neither practical nor advisable, and for applications where rapid, open, and community-wide sharing of software components is desirable.	On the other hand, the same autonomy properties complicate the interactions of FOSS with non-FOSS software, leading to concerns—some valid and some not—about how and where FOSS should be used in complex DoD systems. 
noLabel	She called the step "a significant improvement" and expressed the expectation that the measures take effect as soon as possible, adding that "more work remains to be done.	" The U.S. government welcomed the decision, expressing the belief that the easing would significantly improve the lives of Gaza Strip residents and prevent weapons smuggling .
noLabel	The trauma of the lost war had produced strong pacifist sentiments among the nation, that found expression in the United States-written 1947 constitution, which, under Article 9, forever renounces war as an instrument for settling international disputes and declares that Japan will never again maintain "land, sea, or air forces or other war potential".	Later cabinets interpreted these provisions as not denying the nation the inherent right to self-defense and, with the encouragement of the United States, developed the SDF step by step.
noLabel	The CBD Secretariat supports the implementation of the convention, which has three goals: conservation of biodiversity, sustainable use of its components, and sharing the benefits from the use of genetic resources in a fair and equitable way.	The CBD addresses forest issues directly through its expanded programme of work on forest biological diversity, with the ecosystem approach as the primary framework for action, and through its other thematic programmes of work and work on cross-cutting issues, including on traditional knowledge and protected areas. 
noLabel	As a social scientist our job is to offer an explanation of why things are as they are—to understand and predict.	It is inadequate to say that such problems of intercultural communication can be solved by simply eliminating cultural difference altogether; by one side totally erasing themselves and conforming to the other side's way of thinking, feeling, and behaving.
noLabel	The second Uranverein began after the Heereswaffenamt (HWA, Army Ordinance Office) squeezed out the Reichsforschungsrat (RFR, Reich Research Council) of the Reichserziehungsministerium (REM, Reich Ministry of Education) and started the formal German nuclear energy project under military auspices.	The second Uranverein was formed on 1 September 1939, the day World War II began, and it had its first meeting on 16 September 1939.
noLabel	A right to education has been created and recognized by some jurisdictions: Since 1952, Article 2 of the first Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights obliges all signatory parties to guarantee the right to education.	At the global level, the United Nations' International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 guarantees this right under its Article 13.
noLabel	The inaugural Forest Day was one of the major events at United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) Conference of the Parties (COP) 13 in Bali, Indonesia on 7 December 2007.	More than 800 people participated in Forest Day, including scientists, members of national delegations, and representatives from intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations . 
noLabel	The vast powers that belong to the Crown are collectively known as the Royal Prerogative, the exercise of which does not require parliamentary approval, though it is not unlimited; for example, the monarch does not have the prerogative to impose and collect new taxes without the authorization of an Act of Parliament.	The consent of the Crown must, however, be obtained before either of the houses of parliament may even debate a bill affecting the sovereign's prerogatives or interests, and no act of parliament binds the Queen or her rights unless the act states that it does.
noLabel	Durkheim argued that the transition from primitive to modern societies occurred in part as ‘elders’ made a conscious decision to transmit what were deemed the most essential elements of their culture to the following generations.	In Moral Education, Durkheim makes the case for an education system that preserves social solidarity by instilling three principles of ‘secular morality’ in children: what he terms a spirit of discipline, attachment to social groups, and self-determination.
noLabel	Implementation of the Paris Declaration still needs to be significantly stepped up, according to the results of the 2008 Monitoring Survey.	Concrete targets set for 2010 (such as an increased proportion of aid to be untied; establishment of "mutual accountability" mechanisms in aid recipient countries; and for two-thirds of aid to be delivered in the context of so-called programme approaches rather than projects) may be difficult to meet.
noLabel	Akeley for example, having led expeditions to the Virunga Mountains and observed the mountain gorilla in the wild, became convinced that the species and the area were conservation priorities.	He was instrumental in persuading Albert I of Belgium to act in defense of the mountain gorilla and establish Albert National Park (since renamed Virunga National Park) in what is now Democratic Republic of Congo . 
noLabel	It found "widespread abuse" of performance-enhancing drugs by professional athletes, "facilitated by sports scientists, high-performance coaches and sports staff", that was of a level "significantly higher than is recorded in official statistics".Senior anti-doping officials across the world agree on two things.	First, that what happened in cycling, as so damningly recorded in Usada's investigation into Lance Armstrong's doping ring, is happening in other sports.
noLabel	The most significant incident, however, may have occurred four years ago when the marathoner Alberto Salazar ended a long streak without a victory.	With the help of the antidepressant Prozac, which he was using legally as a training aid, he won the 56-mile Comrades Marathon in South Africa.
noLabel	Runoff advocates counter that voters first preference is more important than lower preferences because that's where voters are putting the most effort of decision and that, unlike Condorcet methods, runoffs require a high showing among the full field of choices in addition to a strong showing in the final head-to-head competition.	Condorcet methods can allow candidates to win who have minimal first-choice support and can win largely on the compromise appeal of being ranked second or third by more voters.
noLabel	A fifth poll, conducted by Harris-Decima for The Canadian Press a few days ahead of the Queen's nine-day visit to Canada in June, found that nearly half of Canadians, 48%, consider the monarchy to be "a relic of our colonial past that has no place in Canada today."	The poll also found that 44% of Canadians want a national referendum to decide whether Canada should keep the monarchy . 
noLabel	In December 1984, Rangel was arrested for participating in an anti-apartheid rally in front of the South African Consulate in New York .	Rangel successfully pushed to have foreign tax credits removed for corporations doing business in that country, a 1987 act that became known as the "Rangel Amendment" .
noLabel	), Cardiff, Aberdeen, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool, London, Manchester and Newcastle; but this time sometimes for wealthy professionals, rather than the `lower classes`.	Their developers market these properties by using the American term 'apartment buildings', perhaps in an effort to distance these newer buildings from the older tower blocks from the 1950s and 1960s.
noLabel	Though India has not made any official statements about the size of its nuclear arsenal, recent estimates suggest that India has between 80 and 100 nuclear weapons, consistent with earlier estimates that it had produced enough weapons-grade plutonium for up to 75–110 nuclear weapons .	Production of weapons-grade plutonium is believed to be taking place at the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, which is home to the CIRUS reactor, acquired from Canada and shut down in 2010, to the indigenous Dhruva reactor, and to a plutonium separation facility . 
noLabel	In partial-birth abortion (PBA), also known as Dilation and Extraction (D&X), the woman's cervix is dilated, and the fetus is partially removed from the womb, feet first.	The surgeon inserts a sharp object into the back of the fetus' head, removes it, and inserts a vacuum tube through which the brain is extracted.
noLabel	Between 7 million and 20 million illegal immigrants are estimated to be living in the United States but the nature of illegal immigration makes the exact number be unknown .	Estimates from the Pew Hispanic Center show the number of illegal immigrants has declined to 11.1 million in March 2009 from a peak of 12 million in March 2007 .
noLabel	Nurit Peled-Elhanan, a professor of language and education at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem asserts that the books promote negative images of Arabs.	The Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace, a schoolbook monitoring organization, disputed this finding, calling her claim heavily politicized and distorted . 
noLabel	If one feels the favoured candidate is certain to be elected in any case, insincerely ranking the second candidate first guarantees them a full vote if needed .	However, the greater the certainty of the first candidate being elected, the bigger their likely surplus, the higher the fraction of the vote that would be transferred to the next candidate, and hence the lower the proportionate benefit of tactical voting. 
noLabel	In the same century Sun Ssu-mo documented the "thousand of gold contraceptive prescription" for women who no longer want to bear children.	This prescription, which was supposed to induce sterility, was made of oil and quicksilver heated together for one day and taken orally .
noLabel	The Earth is unevenly heated by the sun, such that the poles receive less energy from the sun than the equator; along with this, dry land heats up (and cools down) more quickly than the seas do.	The differential heating drives a global atmospheric convection system reaching from the Earth's surface to the stratosphere which acts as a virtual ceiling.
noLabel	In 2005, Sessions spoke at a rally in Washington, D.C. in favor of the War in Iraq that was held in opposition to an anti-war protest held the day before.	Sessions said of the anti-war protesters: "The group who spoke here the other day did not represent the American ideals of freedom, liberty and spreading that around the world.
noLabel	The power of the purse plays a critical role in the relationship of the United States Congress and the President of the United States, and has been the main historic tool by which Congress can limit executive power.	One of the most recent examples is the Foreign Assistance Act of 1974, which eliminated all military funding for the government of South Vietnam and effectively ended the Vietnam War.
noLabel	Though a bill with the gambling wording was previously debated and passed by the House of Representatives, the SAFE Port Act (H.R.	4954) as passed by the House on May 4 and the United States Senate on September 14, bore no traces of the Unlawful Internet Gambling and Enforcement Act that was included in the SAFE Port Act signed into law by George W. Bush on October 13, 2006 .
noLabel	He subsequently chose the name John Paul II in honour of his immediate predecessor, and the traditional white smoke informed the crowd gathered in St. Peter's Square that a pope had been chosen .	He accepted his election with these words: ‘With obedience in faith to Christ, my Lord, and with trust in the Mother of Christ and the Church, in spite of great difficulties, I accept.’ When the new pontiff appeared on the balcony, he broke tradition by addressing the gathered crowd: . 
noLabel	The Internet is a key resource for independent activists or E-activists, particularly those whose message may run counter to the mainstream.	"Especially when a serious violation of human rights occurs, the Internet is essential in reporting the atrocity to the outside world," Listservs like BurmaNet, Freedom News Group help distribute news that would otherwise be inaccessible in these countries. 
noLabel	Up to 40 states are projected to continue borrowing heavily from the Federal Unemployment Account (FUA) over the next few years .	The aggregate loan balance is projected to increase from $40.2 billion at the end of FY 2010 to a peak end-of-year balance of $68.3 billion in FY 2013.
noLabel	In the years immediately after World War II, the issue of who should control atomic weapons became a major international point of contention.	Many of the Los Alamos scientists who had built the bomb began to call for "international control of atomic energy," often calling for either control by transnational organizations or the purposeful distribution of weapons information to all superpowers, but due to a deep distrust of the intentions of the Soviet Union, both in postwar Europe and in general, the policy-makers of the United States worked to attempt to secure an American nuclear monopoly. 
noLabel	In March 2009, the Obama administration outlined plans to redeploy more than 500 federal agents to border posts and redirect $200 million to combat smuggling of illegal drugs, money and weapons .	On May 25, 2010 President Obama authorized deployment of 1,200 National Guard troops to the U.S. border with Mexico to assist with border protection and enforcement activities, as well as help train additional Customs and Border Protection agents .
noLabel	He says that Holland has a tradition of respect, tolerance and responsibility, and that offending others is not part of that tradition.	van Dam said that "the Dutch government will abide by its tradition, and calls upon everyone else to act in a similar spirit".
noLabel	In the week leading up to a contest, bodybuilders may decrease their consumption of water, sodium and carbohydrates, the former two to alter how water is retained by the body and the latter to reduce glycogen in the muscle.	The day before the show, water is removed from the diet, and diuretics may be introduced, while carbohydrate loading to increase the size of the muscles through replenishment of their glycogen.
noLabel	While this program has been deemed a success, many believe that its funding levels need to be increased so as to ensure that all dangerous nuclear materials are secured in the most expeditious manner possible.	The CTR program has led to several other innovative and important nonproliferation programs that need to continue to be a budget priority in order to ensure that nuclear weapons do not spread to actors hostile to the United States. 
noLabel	(Originally, the Fujiwara were descended from relatively minor nobility, thus their kami is an unremarkable one in the Japanese myth world.)	To produce imperial children, heirs of the nation, with two-side descent from the two kamis, was regarded as desirable—or at least it suited powerful Fujiwara lords, who thus received preference in the imperial marriage market.
noLabel	Anthony Kenny argues that this can be derived from everyday beliefs and language and one can legitimately say "if my mother had had an abortion six months into her pregnancy, she would have killed me" then one can reasonably infer that at six months the "me" in question would have been an existing person with a valid claim to life.	Since division of the zygote into twins through the process of monozygotic twinning can occur until the fourteenth day of pregnancy, Kenny argues that individual identity is obtained at this point and thus abortion is not permissible after two weeks .
noLabel	A heckler's veto occurs when an acting party's right to freedom of speech is curtailed or restricted by the government in order to prevent a reacting party's behavior.	The common example is that of demonstrators (reacting party) causing a speech (given by the acting party) to be terminated in order to preserve the peace. 
noLabel	If the urine screen is positive then another aliquot of the sample is used to confirm the findings by gas chromatography – mass spectrometry (GC-MS) methodology.	If requested by the physician or employer, certain drugs are screened for individually; these are generally drugs part of a chemical class that are, for one of many reasons, considered more abuse-prone or of concern.
noLabel	Their empirical results have supported the population-warfare theory: Korotayev and Turchin have found that there is a tendency for population numbers and internal warfare intensity to oscillate with the same period but shifted in phase (with warfare peaks following population peaks).	Furthermore, they have demonstrated that in the agrarian societies the rates of change of the two variables behave precisely as predicted by the theory: population rate of change is negatively affected by warfare intensity, while warfare rate of change is positively affected by population density .
noLabel	This increase in mortality, he postulated, was large enough to overwhelm any protective effect the presence of a gun might have by deterring or defending against burglaries or home invasions, which occurred much less frequently.	The increased risk averaged over all homes containing guns was similar in size to that correlated with an individual with a criminal record living in the home, but substantially less than that associated with demographic factors known to be risks for violence, such as renting a home versus ownership, or living alone versus with others . 
noLabel	Nation-state theory sees power relations only among different state actors, and excludes a global economy, or subjugates it to the nation-state model.	Cosmopolitanism sees global capital as a possible threat to the nation state and places it within a meta-power game in which global capital, states and civil society are its players. 
noLabel	Opponents contend that banning flag burning curtails a form of free speech and undermines the ability of people to protest the policies of the state.	Debates on the issue of flag burning usually revolve around the significance of the flag as a symbol of the nation, the value of flag burning as a means of protest, and on the extent to which free speech should be protected in society.
noLabel	US Army officials condemned the public dissimination of military secrets and the White House urged the website WikiLeaks to not publish any more classified documents related to the Afghan war .	U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said that it is up to the Justice Department to determine if there would be criminal charges in the release of classified military documents by WikiLeaks, but the website was "morally guilty for putting lives at risk" . 
noLabel	Metaphysical naturalism, also called "ontological naturalism" and "philosophical naturalism", is a philosophical worldview and belief system that holds that there is nothing but natural elements, principles, and relations of the kind studied by the natural sciences, i.e., those required to understand our physical environment by mathematical modeling.	Methodological naturalism, on the other hand, refers exclusively to the methodology of science, for which metaphysical naturalism provides only one possible ontological foundation. 
noLabel	In America, political and economic decisions usually are made by politicians elected to legislative assemblies, and not directly by the citizenry (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).	Although legislative votes are recorded and are available to the American public, legislators can exchange their votes on issues they do not care much about for votes on other issues that are more important to their personal agendas (Holcombe 2006).
noLabel	A fighter who suffers an accidental low-blow may be given up to five minutes to recover, after which they may be ruled knocked out if they are unable to continue.	Accidental fouls that cause injury ending a bout may lead to a "no contest" result, or else cause the fight to go to a decision if enough rounds (typically four or more, or at least three in a four-round fight) have passed. 
noLabel	For example, for most of the 20th century in Russia (and the Soviet Union), extremely premature newborns (less than 28 weeks gestational age, or less than 1000&nbsp;grams in weight, or less than 35 centimeters in length) were not counted as a live birth until they had survived 7 days; and if that infant died in those first 168 hours it would not be counted as an infant death.	This led to serious underreporting of the Infant mortality rate (by 22% to 25%) relative to standards recommended by the World Health Organization . 
noLabel	Primary elections were first introduced in Italy by Lega Nord in 1995, but were seldom used until before the 2005 regional elections.	In that occasion the centre-left The Union coalition held open primaries in order to select candidates for President of Apulia and Calabria. 
noLabel	The French President is ex officio a co-prince of Andorra, where Roman Catholicism has a status of state religion (the other co-prince being a Spanish bishop).	Moreover, French heads of states are traditionally offered an honorary title of Canon of the Papal Archbasilica of St. John Lateran, Cathedral of Rome.
noLabel	: The Foreign Ministry of France strongly denounced the flotilla, calling it a "bad idea that is expected only to increase tension and be a source of conflict".	"Last year's events showed that there is a danger that confrontation will result from these initiatives," it said in a statement .
noLabel	The meaning of "free market" has varied over time and between economists, the ambiguous term "free" facilitating a diversity of uses.	To illustrate the ambiguity: classical economists such as Adam Smith believed that an economy should be free of monopoly rents, while proponents of laissez faire believe that people should be free to form monopolies.
noLabel	To close this loophole, in late 2002, the National Association of Attorneys General ("NAAG") introduced the Allocable Share Release Repealer ("ASR Repealer"), a model statute which eliminated the ASR.	In a memo dated September 12, 2003, Attorney General William H. Sorrell of Vermont, Chairman of the NAAG Tobacco Project, underscored the urgency of "all States taking steps to deal with the proliferation of NPM sales, including enactment of complementary legislation and allocable share legislation and consideration of other measures designed to serve the interests of the States in avoiding reductions in tobacco settlement payments."
noLabel	On 5 December 1942 a presidential executive order changed the age range for the draft from 21-45 to 18-38, and ended voluntary enlistment.	Paul V. McNutt, head of the War Manpower Commission, estimated that the changes would increase the ratio of men drafted from one out of nine to one out of five.
noLabel	In 1980, Nintendo released its Game & Watch line, handheld electronic game which spurred dozens of other game and toy companies to make their own portable games, many of which were copies of Game & Watch titles or adaptations of popular arcade games.	Improving LCD technology meant the new handhelds could be more reliable and consume fewer batteries than LED or VFD games, most only needing watch batteries.
noLabel	Finally, in some sports, elements of the game may be tampered with the classic example being from horse racing, where a groom or other person with access to the horses before the race may be bribed to over-feed an animal, or even administer a sedative or amphetamine (known as "horse doping" in order to make a horse faster or slower to respectively increase or reduce a their chances of winning).	Another type of bribery done for financial gain through gambling is to bet against a clear favorite, and ensure that the favorite has an "off day", or attempt to "hop up" a long shot in an attempt to collect big winnings by betting on the heavy odds against it.
noLabel	The General Charter of Jewish Liberties known as the Statute of Kalisz was issued by the Duke of Greater Poland Boleslaus the Pious on 8 September 1264 in Kalisz.	The statute served as the basis for the legal position of Jews in Poland and led to creation of the Yiddish-speaking autonomous Jewish nation until 1795.
noLabel	A similar situation occurred in 2005 with the Deficit Reduction Act, where in the enrolling process certain mistakes were made changing the text of the bill.	In that case, the bill was considered to be law even with the mistakes since the Speaker of the House and the President Pro Tem of the Senate attested that the language sent to the President was indeed the text that was passed by Congress. 
noLabel	The solar thermal power industry is growing rapidly with 1.2 GW under construction as of April 2009 and another 13.9 GW announced globally through 2014.	Spain is the epicenter of solar thermal power development with 22 projects for 1,037 MW under construction, all of which are projected to come online by the end of 2010 .
noLabel	Some international organizations such as Planned Parenthood consider that broad sex education programs have global benefits, such as controlling the risk of overpopulation and the advancement of women's rights (see also reproductive rights).	The use of mass media campaigns, however, has sometimes resulted in high levels of "awareness" coupled with essentially superficial knowledge of HIV transmission . 
noLabel	The sense of euphoria and aggression that accompany the use of steroids can be replaced by lethargy, loss of confidence, melancholy and hopelessness when a person stops using performance-enhancing drugs, doctors said.	It's a pretty strong case that he was withdrawing from steroids and his suicide was directly related to that, said Dr. Larry W. Gibbons, president and medical director of the Cooper Aerobics Center, a leading preventive medicine clinic in Dallas.
noLabel	In the early 20th century the United Kingdom had some of the largest sports facilities in the world, but the level of comfort and amenities they offered would be considered totally unacceptable by modern standards.	After a long period of decline relative to other developed countries British facilities have made a relative improvement since the 1980s, and this is ongoing.
noLabel	The first U.S. government document to mention the interstage was only recently released to the public promoting the 2004 initiation of the Reliable Replacement Warhead Program.	A graphic includes blurbs describing the potential advantage of a RRW on a part by part level, with the interstage blurb saying a new design would replace "toxic, brittle material" and "expensive 'special' material.. [which require] unique facilities" .
noLabel	There are also psychological studies into the phenomenon of mysticism, and the links between disturbing aspects of certain mystic's experiences and their links to childhood abuse .	In another line of research, Clifford A. Pickover explores evidence suggesting that temporal lobe epilepsy may be linked to a variety of spiritual or ‘other worldly’ experiences, such as spiritual possession, originating from altered electrical activity in the brain .
noLabel	It is also necessary in these cases to show that there is a well-founded public interest in the specific information being widely known, and this may be the case even for public figures.	Public interest is generally not "what the public is interested in", but rather "what is in the interest of the public" .
noLabel	At the end of the one-day hearing, Irving was sentenced to three years' imprisonment in accordance with the Austrian Federal Law on the prohibition of National Socialist activities (officially Verbotsgesetz, "Prohibition Statute") for having denied the existence of gas chambers in Nazi concentration camps in several lectures held in Austria in 1989.	Irving sat motionless as Liebtreu asked Irving if he had understood the sentence, to which Irving replied "I'm not sure I do" before being bundled out of the court by Austrian police.
noLabel	Being U.S. citizens, these children do not have to meet the stricter international student rules to enter U.S. universities and colleges.	In addition, when they turn 21, they become eligible to petition for a grant of permanent residency for their parents through family reunification.
noLabel	On 23 July 2010 the United Nations Human Rights Council launched an independent fact-finding mission to investigate violations of international law that may have occurred during the flotilla raid.	Israel refused to allow the panel to interview Israeli witnesses and accused the UNHRC of a history of anti-Israel bias . 
noLabel	1) That the ring shall be made on turf, and shall be four-and-twenty feet square, formed of eight stakes and ropes, the latter extending in double lines, the uppermost line being four feet from the ground, and the lower two feet from the ground.	That in the centre of the ring a mark be formed, to be termed a scratch; and that at two opposite corners, as may be selected, spaces be enclosed by other marks sufficiently large for the reception of the seconds and bottle-holders, to be entitled “the corners.” . 
noLabel	Which of these considerations they thought were most important, which of these considerations they were most alarmed about, and the extent to which each of these considerations ultimately found expression in the Second Amendment is disputed.	Some of these purposes were explicitly mentioned in early state constitutions; for example, the Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776 asserted that, "the people have a right to bear arms for the defence of themselves and the state" .
noLabel	Also, the Council of Europe's 2003 Additional Protocol to the Convention on Cyber Crime, concerning the prosecution of acts of a racist and xenophobic nature committed through computer systems includes an article entitled Denial, gross minimisation, approval or justification of genocide or crimes against humanity, although this does not have the status of law.	Of the countries that ban Holocaust denial, a number (Austria, Germany, Hungary, and Romania) were among the perpetrators of the Holocaust, and many of these also ban other elements associated with Nazism, such as Nazi symbols.
noLabel	Milton and Locke emphasised the role of Government to protect these rights and this belief was first enshrined in a durable form in the US Constitution, with the First Amendment adding the guarantee that "Congress shall make no law.. abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press".	John Stuart Mill (1806–1873) argued that human freedom is good and without it there can be no progress in science, law or politics, which according to Mill required free discussion of opinion.
noLabel	The empowerment of women has relatively recently become a significant area of discussion with respect to development and economics; however it is often regarded as a topic that only addresses and primarily deals with gender inequality.	Because women and men experience poverty differently, they hold dissimilar poverty reduction priorities and are affected differently by development interventions and poverty reduction strategies .
noLabel	Modern usage of the term intellectual property goes back at least as far as 1867 with the founding of the North German Confederation whose constitution granted legislative power over the protection of intellectual property (Schutz des geistigen Eigentums) to the confederation .	When the administrative secretariats established by the Paris Convention (1883) and the Berne Convention (1886) merged in 1893, they located in Berne, and also adopted the term intellectual property in their new combined title, the United International Bureaux for the Protection of Intellectual Property.
noLabel	Since the mid-1990s the central government of Botswana has been trying to move Bushmen out of the Central Kalahari Game Reserve.	As of October 2005, the government has resumed its policy of forcing all Bushmen off their lands in the Game Reserve, using armed police and threats of violence or death .
noLabel	As a consequence the London County Council opened the Boundary Estate in 1900, and many localmen councils began building flats and houses in the early 20th century.	The First World War indirectly provided a new impetus, when the poor physical health and condition of many urban recruits to the army was noted with alarm.
noLabel	The IDF said that all of the equipment on board was examined and none of it was in shortage in Gaza .	According to Israeli and Palestinian sources, Hamas refused to allow the humanitarian aid into Gaza until Israeli authorities released all flotilla detainees and allowed building materials, which are thought to make up 8,000 of the 10,000 tons of the goods, to reach them .
noLabel	In the Stalinist period, even the weather forecasts were changed if they had the temerity to suggest that the sun might not shine on May Day .	Under Nicolae Ceauşescu in Romania, weather reports were doctored so that the temperatures were not seen to rise above or fall below the levels which dictated that work must stop . 
noLabel	In June 2006, the House Appropriations Committee passed a $3&nbsp;million earmark to establish the Charles B. Rangel Center for Public Service at City College of New York .	By 2007 the amount had been reduced to $2&nbsp;million, but the funding for the Center, whose purpose was to bring more poor and minority students into politics, was the target of criticism from Representative John B. T. Campbell III of California and other Republicans as an abuse of the earmark process and as Rangel's "Monument to Me" .
noLabel	Anabolic steroids are banned by all major sports bodies including Fédération Internationale de Football Association the Olympics, the National Basketball Association, the National Hockey League, as well as the National Football League .	The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) maintains the list of performance-enhancing substances used by many major sports bodies and includes all anabolic agents, which includes all anabolic steroids and precursors as well as all hormones and related substances .
noLabel	Social structures at the dawn of Christianity in the Roman Empire held that women were inferior to men intellectually and physically and were "naturally dependent" .	Athenian women were legally classified as children regardless of age and were the "legal property of some man at all stages in her life.
noLabel	The World Bank suggests that key conditions to benefit from expanded trade and investment include lowering common external trade barriers, stimulating competition, reducing transaction costs, and reinforcing nondiscriminatory investment and services policies.	It should be noted that the greater structural differences between North and South economies mean that North-South arrangements hold the greatest promise for economic convergence and trade creation, including in agricultural products, underlining the importance of links between South-South arrangements and northern economies. 
noLabel	The 150 Tg carbon soot aerosol injection into the stratosphere, which the TTAPS paper required to cause nuclear winter, has been criticised on the basis of World War II firestorm ignition evidence from Japanese and medieval European wooden cities, since unbiased factual evidence exists in survivor testimony from Hiroshima that soot was actually precipitated as rainout during the firestorm-the infamous black rain a natural phenomenon produced by Pyrocumulus clouds.	At Hiroshima, the infamous black rain formed soon after the bombing, washing large amounts of carbon out of the atmosphere . 
noLabel	Improving energy efficiency represents the most immediate and often the most cost-effective way to reduce oil dependence, improve energy security, and reduce the health and environmental impact of the energy system.	By reducing the total energy requirements of the economy, improved energy efficiency could make increased reliance on renewable energy sources more practical and affordable .
noLabel	Under the direction of Prime Minister John Howard and Foreign Minister Alexander Downer, Australia then sent the text to the United Nations General Assembly in New York, where it was submitted as a draft resolution .	On 10 September 1996, the Comprehensive Test-Ban Treaty (CTBT) was adopted by a large majority, exceeding two-thirds of the General Assembly's Membership .
noLabel	Whilst minority cultures are allowed to remain distinct, British culture and traditions are sometimes perceived as exclusive and adapted accordingly, often without the consent of the local population.	For instance, Birmingham City Council was heavily criticised when it was alleged to have renamed Christmas as "Winterval" in 1998, although in truth it had done no such thing . 
noLabel	The equality of men and women reflected in the Church teaching that the sexes are meant by divine design to be different and complementary, each having equal dignity and made in the image of God, was also a countercultural concept.	The Church is criticized for its policies regarding women priests and birth control which are viewed by some as discriminatory towards women.
noLabel	In some countries, for example, high-policing organizations regularly engage in actions of dubious legality, such as arbitrarily arresting and detaining people without charge, without legal representation, and without means of communication; some high-policing forces also engage in torture.	In the worst cases, high policing becomes a substitute for the whole criminal justice system: suspects are arrested, tried, convicted, and sentenced entirely by a national security agency, usually very expeditiously and in complete secrecy, as is the case in police states.
noLabel	Targeted Killing in International Law was a joint-winner of the 2009 Paul Guggenheim Prize in International Law given by the Geneva Graduate Institute .	In the chapter "Targeted Killing in U.S. Counterterrorism Strategy and Law" authored by Kenneth Anderson as a contributor to the book Legislating the War on Terror: An Agenda for Reform, he characterizes Melzer's book as a "formidable treatise" .
noLabel	In 2010, the Obama administration negotiated a new weapons accord with Russia for a reduction of the maximum number of deployed nuclear weapons on each side from 2,200 to between 1,500 and 1,675—a reduction of some 30 percent.	In addition, President Obama has committed $15 billion over the next five years to improving the safety of the nuclear weapons stockpile . 
noLabel	Locked-in syndrome is a condition in which a patient is aware and awake, but cannot move or communicate due to complete paralysis of the body .	Voluntary control of eye movements or blinking may be spared, permitting the detection of conscious awareness and enabling the establishment of functional communication .
noLabel	Also, the following has also led to differentiating results: Some polling organizations, such as Angus Reid Public Opinion, YouGov and Zogby use Internet surveys, where a sample is drawn from a large panel of volunteers, and the results are weighted to reflect the demographics of the population of interest.	In contrast, popular web polls draw on whoever wishes to participate, rather than a scientific sample of the population, and are therefore not generally considered professional. 
noLabel	Under Perens' definition, open source describes a broad general type of software license that makes source code available to the general public with relaxed or non-existent copyright restrictions.	The principles, as stated, say absolutely nothing about trademark or patent use and require absolutely no cooperation to ensure that any common audit or release regime applies to any derived works.
noLabel	Conflict may have been too strong a word but there was certainly, at best, a deep seated lack of understanding between the operational grades and their administrative managers within IND as to each others needs and the ISU's statement was representative of that of operational grades.	It is ironic therefore that since the Immigration Service was abolished and subsumed into the UK Border Agency the operational border control has, for the first time in immigration terms, become a uniformed service with a distinct identity that separates it from the rest of Home Office staff.
noLabel	The most prominent examples were those created by the United States Secret Service for President George W. Bush and other members of his administration .	Free speech zones existed in limited forms prior to the Presidency of George W. Bush; it was during Bush's presidency that their scope has been greatly expanded . 
noLabel	Knowledge in the sense of "understanding of a fact or truth" can be divided into a posteriori knowledge, based on experience or deduction (see methodology), and a priori knowledge from introspection, axioms or self-evidence.	Knowledge can also be described as a psychological state, since in a strict sense there can never be a posteriori knowledge proper (see relativism).
noLabel	Adelaide House opened in 1971 and had a mixed bag of duties which included dealing with passengers and crew in the Port of London, interviewing foreign criminals in London prisons, attending court and a range of visits to private addresses to talk to people about their status or circumstances.	Later in the 70’s the Immigration Officers at both Adelaide House and Harmondsworth would be diverted to interview people in relation to their applications made under the amnesties. 
noLabel	Anti-consumerists cite studies that find that individuals believe their quality of life improves in relation to social values that lie outside the capability of the market place.	Therefore, advertising attempts to equate the social with the material by utilizing images and slogans to link commodities with the real sources of human happiness, such as meaningful relationships.
noLabel	There are many different types and styles of educational games all the way from counting to spelling to games for kids and games for adults.	Some other games do not have any particular targeted audience in mind and intended to simply educate or inform whoever views or plays the game.
noLabel	Nordicism lead to the reduction in Southern European and Eastern European immigrants in the National Origins Formula of the Emergency Quota Act of 1921 and the Immigration Act of 1924, whose goal was to maintain the status quo distribution of ethnicity by limiting immigration in proportion to existing populations.	This reduced the inflow from the average prior to 1921 of 176,983 from Northern and Western Europe, and 685,531 for other countries, principally Southern and Eastern Europe, to a 1924 level of 140,999 for Northern and Western Europe, and 21,847 for other countries, principally Southern and Eastern Europe (from a 1:3.9 ratio to a 6.4:1 ratio). 
noLabel	In October 2011, Eurozone leaders agreed to offer a second bailout loan for Greece, conditional not only the implementation of another harsh austerity package, but also that all private creditors should agree to a restructure of the Greek debt, reducing the debt burden from a forecasted 198% of GDP in 2012 to only 120.5% of GDP by 2020.	The second bailout deal was finally ratified by all parties in February 2012, and became activated one month later, after the last condition about a successful debt restructure of all Greek government bonds, also had been met.
noLabel	The 2004 WSIS Declaration of Principles also acknowledged that "it is necessary to prevent the use of information resources and technologies for criminal and terrorist purposes, while respecting human rights.	" Wolfgang Benedek comments that the WSIS Declaration only contains a number of references to human rights and does not spell out any procedures or mechanism to assure that human rights are considered in practice .
noLabel	A Commonwealth realm's governor-general may fulfil many of the roles of a head of state, but is typically not, either legally or conventionally, regarded as the head of state, but rather as an appointed representative of the head of state mandated to act in his or her place, even when the monarch is present in the country.	Some governors-general are considered de facto heads of state because, though not the de jure (juridical or legal) head of state, in practice they function like a head of state in most or all jurisdictions.
noLabel	Abortion is illegal in the Republic of Ireland except when the woman's life is threatened by a medical condition or a suicide risk, since a 1983 referendum amended the constitution.	Subsequent amendments – the thirteenth and fourteenth – guaranteed the right to travel abroad (for abortions) and to distribute and obtain information of "services" not available in the country, such as abortion, which are lawful in other countries.
noLabel	Analyst Jessica Tuchman Mathews of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace agreed that imposing democracy "from scratch" was unwise, and didn't work .	Realist critics such as George F. Kennan argued U.S. responsibility is only to protect its own citizens and that Washington should deal with other governments on that basis alone; they criticize president Woodrow Wilson's emphasis on democratization and nation-building although it wasn't mentioned in Wilson's Fourteen Points, and the failure of the League of Nations to enforce international will regarding Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Imperial Japan in the 1930s.
noLabel	The UDHR urges member nations to promote a number of human, civil, economic and social rights, asserting these rights as part of the "foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world."	The declaration was the first international legal effort to limit the behaviour of states and press upon them duties to their citizens following the model of the rights-duty duality.
noLabel	On June 19, the substitute (compromise) bill passed the Senate by a vote of 71–29, and quickly passed through the House-Senate conference committee, which adopted the Senate version of the bill.	The conference bill was passed by both houses of Congress, and was signed into law by President Johnson on July 2, 1964 .
noLabel	When that "divinity" which "doth hedge a king," and which in our day has left a glamour around the body inheriting his power, has quite died away - when it begins to be seen clearly that, in a popularly-governed nation, the government is simply a committee of management; it will also be seen that this committee of management has no intrinsic authority.	The inevitable conclusion will be that its authority is given by those appointing it; and has just such bounds as they choose to impose.
noLabel	"Britain is now governed by a suicide cult bent on wiping out any last vestige of nationhood" and called it a "profoundly disturbing social experiment" .	The head of the Commission for Racial Equality, who has called for an official end to multicultural policy and has criticised "politically correct liberals for their “misguided” pandering to the ethnic lobby" . 
noLabel	The estimates that between 1.6 and 3.8&nbsp;million traumatic brain injuries each year are a result of sports and recreation activities in the US .	In children aged two to four, falls are the most common cause of TBI, while in older children traffic accidents compete with falls for this position .
noLabel	The IAEA is not able to conclusively confirm that Iran isn't currently enriching uranium for military purposes, as its inspections have been restricted to workshops previously declared as part of the civilian uranium enrichment program, and requests for access to certain military workshops have been denied; the report noted that "As a result, the agency's knowledge about Iran's current nuclear program is diminishing".	The report also confirmed that Iran now possesses 3000 centrifuges, a 10-fold increase over the past year, though the feed rate is below the maximum for a facility of this design.
noLabel	With the 2004 extension, former President George Bush included the Production Tax Credit within a group of tax incentives for businesses.	The PTC was extended through 2005 and also expanded the different types of renewable energies that would be included under the bill .
noLabel	From this principal, conservation biologists can trace communal resource based ethics throughout cultures as a solution to communal resource conflict .	For example, the Alaskan Tlingit peoples and the Haida of the Pacific Northwest had resource boundaries, rules, and restrictions among clans with respect to the fishing of Sockeye Salmon.
noLabel	She also voted yes on a substitute bill to lower student loan interest rates and increase black college and Hispanic college quality and quantity.	She voted yes on a bill for state-testing and voted no on bills to allow vouchers in the District of Columbia, allowing vouchers in private schools and parochial schools, and no on a bill that would only give federal aid to schools that allowed school prayer .
noLabel	On December 22, the court ruled against the Republican Party and overturned the restraining order, allowing King County to count all ballots .	The next day, Sam Reed issued a statement explaining the process for certification of the uncounted ballots and the standards for fair voting practices in the state . 
noLabel	Legal protection for whistleblowing varies from country to country and may depend on any of the country of the original activity, where and how secrets were revealed, and how they eventually became published or publicized.	Over a dozen countries have now adopted comprehensive whistleblower protection laws which create mechanisms for reporting, investigate reports, and provide legal protections to the people who informed them.
noLabel	The ATF's "gunwalking" operations were deliberately kept secret from the Mexican government, even after related firearms began to be found at violent crime scenes and in criminal arsenals in 2010 and 2011.	When they were told in January 2011 that there was an undercover program in existence, they still were not given details .
noLabel	Critics of the NPT-recognized nuclear-weapon states sometimes argue that what they view as the failure of the NPT-recognized nuclear weapon states to disarm themselves of nuclear weapons, especially in the post–Cold War era, has angered some non-nuclear-weapon NPT signatories of the NPT.	Such failure, these critics add, provides justification for the non-nuclear-weapon signatories to quit the NPT and develop their own nuclear arsenals. 
noLabel	Unocal, before being purchased, stated that they had no knowledge or connection to these alleged actions although it continued working in Burma.	This was believed to be the first time an American corporation has been sued in a U.S. court on the grounds that the company violated human rights in another country . 
noLabel	One study suggested that adolescent mothers are less likely to stimulate their infant through affectionate behaviors such as touch, smiling, and verbal communication, or to be sensitive and accepting toward his or her needs .	Another found that those who had more social support were less likely to show anger toward their children or to rely upon punishment . 
noLabel	In 2004, the Australian Centre for the Moving Image was responsible for the censorship of an Australian artist's work which they had actually commissioned.	Videoed images of the artist nailing her body to a tree were reduced in quantity and scale for final presentation to the public, without the artist's consent. 
noLabel	During this era, merchants, who had traded under the previous stage of mercantilism, invested capital in the East India Companies and other colonies, seeking a return on investment.	In his "History of Economic Analysis," Austrian economist Joseph Schumpeter reduced mercantilist propositions to three main concerns: exchange controls, export monopolism and balance of trade .
noLabel	David Boonin replies that if this kind of argument were correct, then the killing of nonhuman animals and plants would also be morally wrong, because (Boonin contends) it is not known for certain that such beings lack a right to life .	Boonin also argues that arguments from uncertainty fail because the mere fact that one might be mistaken in finding certain arguments persuasive (for example, arguments for the claim that the fetus lacks a right to life) does not mean that one should act contrary to those arguments or assume them to be mistaken .
noLabel	However, when the analysis controls for unobserved characteristics affecting both the likelihood of having premarital sex and the likelihood of divorce, the differential is no longer significant.	These results suggest that the positive relationship between premarital sex and the risk of divorce can be attributed to prior unobserved differences (e.g., the willingness to break traditional norms) rather than to a direct causal effect .
noLabel	The book delves into the history surrounding use of targeted killing as a government strategy by multiple countries including the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Switzerland, and Germany; both for military and law enforcement purposes.	Melzer argues that directly after the September 11 attacks in the United States, perceptions regarding the use of the tactic of targeted killing shifted to become more supportive . 
noLabel	All variations on the argument from morality begin with some observation about moral thought or experiences and conclude with the existence of God .	Arguments from morality can be based on moral normativity, which suggests that objective moral truths and the binding nature of obligations suggests a high power to enforce them, regarded as God .
noLabel	"I believe we must secure our borders, fix our broken immigration bureaucracy, and require the 12 million undocumented to get on a responsible path to citizenship.	I will also increase the number of people we allow in the country legally to a level that unites families and meets the demand for jobs employers cannot fill" "I support comprehensive immigration reform that includes improving our visa programmes, including the H-1B programme, to attract some of the world's most talented people to America", Obama said in an interview with IANS in October 2008 .
noLabel	Structural functionalism or Functionalism is a framework for building theory that sees society as a complex system whose parts work together to promote solidarity and stability .	This approach looks at society through a macro-level orientation, which is a broad focus on the social structures that shapes society as a whole .
noLabel	2004 research in New Zealand  produced a report that showed that "life shocks" can be endured only to a limited extent, after which people are much more likely to be tipped into hardship.	The researchers found very little differences in living standards for people who have endured up to 7 negative events in their lifetime.
noLabel	Concern often starts with a single issue, such as radioactive waste, but over time concerns usually spread and the focus broadens.	Falk suggests that with a richer and more sophisticated understanding of issues comes more concerns and eventually, almost inevitably says Falk, this leads to a "concern over the political relations of the nuclear industry" . 
noLabel	In October 2011, documents were released that indicated Holder was sent memos in regards to Operation Fast and Furious in 2010, contradicting Holder's sworn testimony before the House Judiciary Committee in which he said he was unaware of Operation Fast and Furious until April 2011.	In response, Lamar Smith, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to President Obama, requesting the appointment of an independent special counsel to investigate whether Holder committed perjury by lying to the committee while under oath . 
noLabel	The major political parties are the National Democratic Force and the two backed by the military: the National Unity Party, and the Union Solidarity and Development Party.	The National League for Democracy, the party of Aung San Suu Kyi, was declared illegal before the 2010 elections for failing to register for the elections. 
noLabel	Microsoft officially announced a "strategic alliance" with Rockstar Games over the rights to episodic content through their Xbox Live service at their X06 event.	This content was released as Grand Theft Auto: The Lost and Damned on 17 February 2009, and it was available for download, exclusively for the Xbox 360, this was because of the substantial $50 million that Microsoft paid Rockstar to keep it exclusive.
noLabel	The extent to which the NEA and its state and local affiliates engage in political activities, especially during election cycles has, however, been a source of controversy .	From 1989 to 2010 the NEA has spent approximately 36 million dollars on lobbying efforts according to the Center for Responsive Politics . 
noLabel	In 1995, two Marines and a sailor kidnapped and raped a 12-year-old girl, and, under the SOFA with the U.S., local police and prosecutors were unable to get access to the troops until they were able to prepare an indictment.	What surprised many in this instance was not just the nature of crime but also that, in this instance, the suspects were handed over to Japanese police. 
noLabel	Although violence between drug cartels has been occurring long before the war began, the government used its police forces in the 1990s and early 2000s with little effect.	That changed on December 11, 2006, when newly elected President Felipe Calderón sent 6,500 federal troops to the state of Michoacán to put an end to drug violence there.
noLabel	Activision was popular among developers for giving them credit in the packaging and title screens for their games, while Atari disallowed this practice.	As the video game industry took off in the mid-1980s, many developers faced the more distressing problem of working with fly-by-night or unscrupulous publishers that would either fold unexpectedly or run off with the game profits.
noLabel	2) That each man shall be attended to the ring by a second and a bottle-holder, the former provided with a sponge and the latter with a bottle of water.	That the combatants, on shaking hands, shall retire until the seconds of each have tossed for choice of position, which adjusted, the winner shall choose his corner according to the state of the wind or sun, and conduct his man thereto, the loser taking the opposite corner. 
noLabel	Geist and Lambin (2002) assessed 152 case studies of net losses of tropical forest cover to determine any patterns in the proximate and underlying causes of tropical deforestation.	Their results, yielded as percentages of the case studies in which each parameter was a significant factor, provide a quantitative prioritization of which proximate and underlying causes were the most significant.
noLabel	The UK government signed the Partial Test Ban Treaty on 5 August 1963 along with the United States and the Soviet Union which effectively restricted it to underground nuclear tests by outlawing testing in the atmosphere, underwater, or in outer space.	The UK signed the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty on 24 September 1996 and ratified it on 6 April 1998, having passed the necessary legislation on 18 March 1998 as the Nuclear Explosions (Prohibition and Inspections) Act 1998.
noLabel	While on the trip, Taylor did something completely out of character, stealing a digital camera and a laptop computer, his father said.	When the family returned home on July 14, his parents, brother and sister confronted Taylor and told him that his behavior had become unacceptable.
noLabel	The Civil Rights Act of 1964 () was a landmark piece of legislation in the United States that outlawed major forms of discrimination against African Americans and women, including racial segregation.	It ended unequal application of voter registration requirements and racial segregation in schools, at the workplace and by facilities that served the general public ("public accommodations"). 
noLabel	Before his death, Franz Kafka wrote to his friend and literary executor Max Brod: "Dearest Max, my last request: Everything I leave behind me .. in the way of diaries, manuscripts, letters (my own and others'), sketches, and so on, [is] to be burned unread.	" Brod overrode Kafka's wishes, believing that Kafka had given these directions to him, specifically, because Kafka knew he would not honour them — Brod had told him as much.
noLabel	As shown by the divination texts preserved on oracle bones from the later Shang, Heaven was thought to be very active and to interfere in mysterious ways with earthly rule.	The philosophy of the Mandate of Heaven changed the right to rule from one of purely divine legitimization to one based on just rule. 
noLabel	In 2000, the first Australian Federal Government passes the Interactive Gambling Moratorium Act, making it illegal for any online casino not licensed and operating before May 2000 to operate.	The new legislation meant Lasseter's Online became the only online casino able to legally operate in Australia, however they cannot take bets from Australian citizens . 
noLabel	This has caused outrage in the United States, and resulted in the Federal Government of the United States listing Cuba as a state sponsor of terrorism.	Similar grievances exist on the Cuban side, with the United States having granted asylum to a number of individuals which the Government of Cuba considers criminals, traitors, or terrorists, possibly as an exercise of the right of reciprocity, or the right of reprisal; however, the Government of Cuba apparently has not added the United States to its list of state sponsors of terrorism .
noLabel	In the 1870s in the United States, in the aftermath of the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson and his near-removal from office, it was speculated that the United States, too, would move from a presidential system to a semi-presidential or even parliamentary one, with the Speaker of the House of Representatives becoming the real center of government as a quasi-prime minister.	This did not happen and the presidency, having been damaged by three late nineteenth and early twentieth century assassinations (Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley) and one impeachment (Johnson), reasserted its political dominance by the early twentieth century through such figures as Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson. 
noLabel	During the 1980s and 1990s, the Keidanren business lobbying organization advocated a policy of allowing South Americans of Japanese ancestry (mainly Brazilians and Peruvians) to work in Japan, as Japan's industries faced a major labor shortage.	Although this policy has been decelerated in recent years, many of these individuals continue to live in Japan, some in ethnic enclaves near their workplaces. 
noLabel	School choice is a term used to describe a wide array of programs aimed at giving families the opportunity to choose the school their children will attend.	As a matter of form, school choice does not give preference to one form of schooling or another, rather manifests itself whenever a student attends school outside of the one they would have been assigned to by geographic default.
noLabel	The passage describes a confrontation between Jesus and the scribes and Pharisees over whether a woman, caught in an act of adultery, ought to be stoned.	Jesus shames the crowd into dispersing, and averts the execution with the famous words: "He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her".
noLabel	In 2008, she also tried to renegotiate teacher compensation, offering teachers the choice of salaries of up to $140,000 based on what she termed "student achievement" with no tenure rights or earning much smaller pay raises with tenure rights retained.	Teachers and the teachers union rejected the proposal, contesting that some form of tenure was necessary to protect against arbitrary, political, or wrongful termination of employment . 
noLabel	The imposition of blanket visa controls on these Commonwealth countries in 1986 can possibly be seen as the final stage of the process that had started in 1962 and an attempt to move away from the inconsistencies of the past.	There was now an increasingly long list of countries whose people would require visas before coming to the UK, even as visitors.
noLabel	The Global Internet Freedom Consortium claims to remove blocks to the "free flow of information" for what they term "closed societies" .	According to the Reporters without Borders (RWB) "internet enemy list" the following states engage in pervasive internet censorship: China, Cuba, Iran, Myanmar/Burma, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam . 
noLabel	On the PC, players typically use the mouse to click on icons and menu options, while console games duplicate this functionality with the game controller.	Older games often revealed calculations of the game as seen in Dungeons and Dragons games, although more recent games have removed this information to improve immersion .
noLabel	But it would not do, for example, to invoke the fact that some embryo's future would involve such things as being raised by an unloving family, since we do not take it to be acceptable to kill a five-year-old just because her future involves being raised by an unloving family.	Similarly, killing a child or adult may be permissible in exceptional circumstances such as self-defense or (perhaps) capital punishment; but these are irrelevant to standard abortions. 
noLabel	One reason for parents, even mothers, to avoid daughters is the traditional patriarchal culture in the countries where the elimination of females takes place.	As parents grow older they can expect much more help and support from their independent sons, than from daughters, who after getting married become in a sense property of their husbands' families, and, even if educated and generating significant income, have limited ability to interact with their natal families.
noLabel	The treaty recognizes the inalienable right of sovereign states to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, but restricts this right for NPT parties to be exercised "in conformity with Articles I and II" (the basic nonproliferation obligations that constitute the "first pillar" of the Treaty).	As the commercially popular light water reactor nuclear power station uses enriched uranium fuel, it follows that states must be able either to enrich uranium or purchase it on an international market.
noLabel	Symbolic interactionism draws on the phenomenology of Edmund Husserl and George Herbert Mead, as well as subcultural theory and conflict theory .	This school of thought focused on the relationship between the powerful state, media and conservative ruling elite on the one hand, and the less powerful groups on the other.
noLabel	This method can serve two purposes: to limit overindulging in the cutting phase, and to physically allow for the consumption of large volumes of food during the bulking phase.	Contrary to popular belief, eating more frequently does not increase basal metabolic rate when compared to the traditional 3 meals a day.
noLabel	Within her executive order, Palin described warming as a "global challenge" and sought "opportunities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Alaska sources, including the expanded use of alternative fuels, energy conservation, energy efficiency, renewable energy, land use management, and transportation planning.	" In April 2009 Palin acknowledged that "Simply waiting for low-carbon-emitting renewable capacity to be large enough will mean that it will be too late to meet the mitigation goals for reducing [carbon dioxide] that will be required under most credible climate-change models.
noLabel	In this early work, TTAPS carried out the first estimates of the total smoke and dust emissions that would result from a major nuclear exchange, and determined quantitatively the subsequent effects on the atmospheric radiation balance and temperature structure.	To compute dust and smoke impacts, they employed a one-dimensional microphysics/radiative-transfer model of the Earth's lower atmosphere (to the mesopause), which defined only the vertical characteristics of the global climate perturbation. 
noLabel	On 20 July 1999, the government banned Falun Gong and all 'heterodox religions', and began a nationwide crackdown of the popular new religious movement following a demonstration by 10,000 practitioners outside the leadership enclave at Zhongnanhai on 25 April .	Protests in Beijing were frequent for the first few years following the 1999 edict, though these protests have largely been eradicated .
noLabel	Cultural influence can be seen by the "receiving" culture as either a threat to or an enrichment of its cultural identity.	It seems therefore useful to distinguish between cultural imperialism as an (active or passive) attitude of superiority, and the position of a culture or group that seeks to complement its own cultural production, considered partly deficient, with imported products. 
noLabel	In the 1997 UK general election, Democratic Left helped Bruce Kent set up GROT - Get Rid Of Them - a tactical voter campaign whose sole aim was to help prevent the Conservative Party from gaining a 5th term in office.	This coalition was drawn from individuals in all the main opposition parties and many who were not aligned with any party.
noLabel	Longenecker adds that the Founders did not write the Constitution for citizens as much as to impose limits on government - a subject they knew only too well.	Regarding the Second Amendment, the Founders did not fear nor imagine weapons of the future, but foresaw and forbade abuses of due process in the future.
noLabel	As a result of cultural differences, African American students tend to begin school with smaller vocabularies than their white classmates .	However, poverty often acts as a confounding factor and differences that are assumed to arise from racial/cultural factors may be socioeconomically driven.
noLabel	It was first suggested in the 18th century that intracranial pressure rather than skull damage was the cause of pathology after TBI.	This hypothesis was confirmed around the end of the 19th&nbsp;century, and opening the skull to relieve pressure was then proposed as a treatment . 
noLabel	Other support units were activated at Wendover from personnel already present and working with its Project W-47, which was later superseded by Project Alberta, or in the 216th Base Unit, both of which were affiliated with the Project Y.	The 390th Air Service Group was created as the command echelon for the 603rd Air Engineering Squadron, the 1027th Air Material squadron, and its own Air Base Support Squadron, but as these units became independent operationally, acted as the basic support unit for the entire 509th Composite Group in providing quarters, rations, medical care, postal service and other basic support functions.
noLabel	A purer form is direct democracy in which the voting public makes direct decisions or participates directly in the political process.	Elements of direct democracy exist on a local level and on exceptions on national level in many countries, though these systems coexist with representative assemblies. 
noLabel	Since 1975, the U.S. has resettled approximately 2.6 million refugees, with nearly 77% being either Indochinese or citizens of the former Soviet Union.	Since the enactment of the Refugee Act of 1980, annual admissions figures have ranged from a high of 207,116 in 1980 to a low of 27,100 in 2002. 
noLabel	Extermination through labour was a policy of systematic extermination — camp inmates would literally be worked to death, or worked to physical exhaustion, when they would be gassed or shot.	Slave labour was used in war production, for example producing V-2 rockets at Mittelbau-Dora, and various armaments around the Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp complex. 
noLabel	For example, a blind person or one who cannot read the language of the ballot paper may be told that they have voted for one party when in fact they have been led to vote for another.	This is similar to the misuse of proxy votes; however in this case the voter will be under the impression that they have voted with the assistance of the other person, rather than having the other person voting on their behalf. 
noLabel	Rugby football in Britain therefore became subject to a de-facto schism along regional, and to some extent class, lines, reflecting the historical origins of the split.	Rugby league - in which professionalism was permitted - was predominant in northern England, particularly in industrial areas, and was viewed as a working class game.
noLabel	The World Bank collects , including  and a set of  Moreover, one of the six dimensions of governance measured by the Worldwide Governance Indicators is Control of Corruption, which is defined as "the extent to which power is exercised for private gain, including both petty and grand forms of corruption, as well as 'capture' of the state by elites and private interests.	" While the definition itself is fairly precise, the data aggregated into the Worldwide Governance Indicators is based on any available polling: questions range from "is corruption a serious problem?"
noLabel	He further describes what he calls "Mindfulness Training of the Order of Interbeing" as being aware of sufferings created by, but not limited to, the following causes: fanaticism and intolerances that disrupt compassion and living in harmony with others; indoctrination of narrow-minded beliefs; imposition of views; anger; and miscommunication (89-95) .	Understanding and compassion for others seems to be achieved by the understanding of others' suffering and the root causes of suffering.
noLabel	During The Great Depression, the U.S. government sponsored a Mexican Repatriation program which was intended to encourage Mexican immigrants to voluntarily return to Mexico, however, many were forcibly removed against their will.	In total, up to one million persons of Mexican ancestry were deported, approximately 60 percent of those individuals were actually U.S. citizens . 
noLabel	In the US, the criminal justice system has, for instance, funded school- and community-based initiatives to reduce children's access to guns and teach conflict resolution.	In 1974, the US Department of Justice assumed primary responsibility for delinquency prevention programmes and created the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, which has supported the "Blueprints for violence prevention" programme at the University of Colorado .
noLabel	The Football Association prohibited paying players until 1885, and this is referred to as the "legalisation" of professionalism because it was an amendment of the "Laws of the Game".	However, a maximum salary cap of twelve pounds a week for a player with outside employment and fifteen pounds a week for a player with no outside employment lingered until the 1960s even as transfer fees reached over a hundred thousand pounds; again, "boot money" was seen as a way of topping up pay.
noLabel	A striking number of Catholic bishops have recently brought out documents of their own defending “Humanae Vitae.” However, a New York Times article notes some parish priests disagree with the teaching, and others agree with it, but avoid discussing the topic aware of contraception use among Catholics .	Also, developments in fertility awareness since the 1960s  have given rise to natural family planning organizations such as the , Couple to Couple League and the Creighton Model FertilityCare System, which actively provide formal instruction on the use and reliability of natural methods of birth control.
noLabel	In October 2010, an international comparison of access to government information ranked Canada last; a significant change from only a decade before when the country often served as a model for freedom of information internationally.	The University College London study comparing Canada, the UK, Australia, New Zealand, and Ireland was published in Government Information Quarterly .
noLabel	In Germany, anti-smoking groups, often associated with anti-liquor groups, these groups first published advocacy against the consumption of tobacco in the journal Der Tabakgegner (The Tobacco Opponent), by the Bohemian organization between 1912 and 1932.	The Deutsche Tabakgegner (German Tobacco Opponents) was published in Dresden from 1919 to 1935, and was the second journal on this subject . 
noLabel	Because most teenagers tend to show some form of antisocial, aggressive or delinquent behavior during adolescence, it important to account for these behaviors in childhood, in order to determine whether they will be life-course-persistent offenders, or adolescents-limited offenders.	Although adolescent-limited offenders tend to drop all criminal activity once they enter adulthood, and show less pathology than life-course-persistent offenders, they still show more mental health, substance abuse, and finance problems, both in adolescence and adulthood, than those who where never delinquent.
noLabel	However, "purists" of the sport have contended that the shift from 15 rounds to 12 rounds has impacted viewership of the sport .	Moreover, Frank Lotierzo, a critic of the 12-round limit, pointed out that fatalities are rare in heavyweight matches, instead attributing deaths to dehydration from the pressure of "making weight" for lower weight classes:
noLabel	Along with this will go the further conclusion that the laws it passes are not in themselves sacred; but that whatever sacredness they have, is entirely due to the ethical sanction - an ethical sanction which, as we find, is derivable from the laws of human life as carried on under social conditions.	And there will come the corollary that when they have not this ethical sanction they have no sacredness, and may be rightly challenged. 
noLabel	A colleague of Faurisson, Jean-Claude Pressac, who initially shared Faurisson's views, later became convinced of the Holocaust's evidence while investigating documents at Auschwitz in 1979.	He published his conclusions along with much of the underlying evidence in his 1989 book, Auschwitz: Technique and operation of the gas chambers . 
noLabel	With respect to treaties that "deal [..] exclusively with acquisition, manufacture, possession, deployment and testing of nuclear weapons, without specifically addressing their threat or use," the Court notes that those treaties "certainly point to an increasing concern in the international community with these weapons; the Court concludes from this that these treaties could therefore be seen as foreshadowing a future general prohibition of the use of such weapons, but they do not constitute such a prohibition by themselves" (paragraph 62).	Also, regarding regional treaties prohibiting resource, namely those of Tlatelolco (Latin America) and Rarotonga (South Pacific) the Court notes that while those "testify to a growing awareness of the need to liberate the community of States and the international public from the dangers resulting from the existence of nuclear weapons", "[i]t [i.e.
noLabel	He has since reversed this position, stating "I know it's still being reported that we were talking about delaying some aspects of the Constellation program to pay for our early-education program ..	I told my staff we're going to find an entirely different offset, because we've got to make sure that the money going into NASA for basic research and development continues to go there.
noLabel	The change coincided with what would have been the adolescence, or peak years of potential criminality, of those who had not been born as a result of Roe v. Wade and similar cases.	Donohue and Levitt's study also noted that states which legalized abortion before the rest of the nation experienced the lowering crime rate pattern earlier, and those with higher abortion rates had more pronounced reductions . 
noLabel	Additional financing is needed to implement REDD+ at scale: An agreement on a robust and predictable system for mobilizing financial resources from various sources is needed, primarily in developed countries.	This will be needed to stimulate and pay for early REDD+ action at scale, technology transfers, capacity building and the development of national and sub-national monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) systems, among others. 
noLabel	Since 2000 the British Superbike Championship has become increasingly popular, surpassing its four-wheeled rivals in terms of spectator receipts and television coverage.	Britain hosts one round of the MotoGP championship at Donington Park, and usually two rounds of the Superbike World Championship, at Silverstone and Brands Hatch.
noLabel	Characterized by some as anti-capitalist or opposed to capitalism, it publishes the reader-supported, advertising-free Adbusters, an activist magazine with an international circulation of 120,000 devoted to challenging consumerism.	Past and present contributors to the magazine include Christopher Hedges, Matt Taibbi, Bill McKibben, Jim Munroe, Douglas Rushkoff, Jonathan Barnbrook, David Graeber, Simon Critchley, Slavoj Zizek, Michael Hardt, David Orrell and others. 
noLabel	To maintain the staff's professional and political independence, the mayor (or any other member of the council) may not personally direct any member of staff.	Changing the direction of an authority may only be made through a formal decision-making process and then only on the basis of official reports put together by officers. 
noLabel	The national security apparatus depends largely on combinations of management practices, technical capabilities, the projection of images both internally and externally, and the capacity to gain enough of the will of the people to gather taxes and spend them on useful efforts.	While some nation states use power to gain more power for their leadership, others provide quality of life improvements to their people, thus creating larger geopolitical conflicts between types of governments.
noLabel	Male circumcision and HIV: Some research has suggested that male circumcision can reduce the risk of HIV infection in some countries.	The World Health Organization cites the procedure as a measure against the transmission of HIV between women and men; some African studies have found that circumcision can reduce the rate of transmission of HIV to men by up to 60% .
noLabel	Female smokers in film were also early on associated with a type of sensuous and seductive sexuality, most notably personified by German film star Marlene Dietrich.	Similarly, actors like Humphrey Bogart and Audrey Hepburn have been closely identified with their smoker persona, and some of their most famous portraits and roles have involved them being haloed by a mist of cigarette smoke.
noLabel	Although the percentage of wealth owned by the top 1% was higher in the 1990s than in any decade since the 1960s, the percentage, 38% remained constant throughout the decade and then declined during the 2000s.	Additionally, the top 1% owned a greater percentage of wealth they have ever controlled since 1964 during the 1990s despite the 4.6% increase in the marginal income tax rate.
noLabel	The Innocence Project: The main goal of this organization is not to reduce juvenile delinquency, but rather, to liberate juveniles that were falsely convicted of crimes.	Though this foundation is not primarily focused on reducing juvenile delinquency, it has done a good job of freeing falsely convicted teens in the past . 
noLabel	The Nice Person’s Dilemma is a risk that opportunists will take when they seize advantage of those who are generous and cooperative .	If the Baumol effect occurs, many will take advantage of these “Nice Persons” and act as if they will pay them back, but never do because of the higher prices.
noLabel	Al-Muqaddasi in the 10th century described them as resembling minarets, while Nasir Khusraw in the early 11th century described some of them rising up to 14 storeys, with roof gardens on the top storey complete with ox-drawn water wheels for irrigating them .	By the 16th century, Cairo also had high-rise apartment buildings where the two lower floors were for commercial and storage purposes and the multiple storeys above them were rented out to tenants . 
noLabel	For almost a century following the ratification of the Bill of Rights, the intended meaning and application of the Second Amendment drew less interest than it does in modern times .	The vast majority of regulation was done by states, and the first case law on weapons regulation dealt with state interpretations of the Second Amendment.
noLabel	Some contemporary economic migration occurs even where the migrant becomes illegally resident in their destination country and therefore at major disadvantage in the employment market.	Illegal immigrants are, for example, known to cross in significant numbers, typically at night, from Mexico into the US, from Mozambique into South Africa, from Bulgaria and Turkey into Greece, and from north Africa into Spain and Italy. 
noLabel	Whether MAD was the officially accepted doctrine of the United States military during the Cold War is largely a matter of interpretation.	The United States Air Force, for example, has retrospectively contended that it never advocated MAD as a sole strategy, and that this form of deterrence was seen as one of numerous options in U.S. nuclear policy .
noLabel	HRW researches concluded that the Israeli soldiers at best failed to protect civilians, and at worst deliberately shot at them .	In one of the cases mentioned in the report, on January 7, Israeli soldiers shot and killed two of the girls of the Abd Rabbo family (aged 2 and 7), wounding the third girl (aged 4) and their grandmother .
noLabel	Similarly, researcher Jennifer Simpson proposed that "In short, in setting aside color blindness, Whites must learn to see, accept, and experience their lives as raced and to explore the possibility that some of the good, ease, or rewards they have experienced have not been solely the result of hard work and just effort but of a system biased in their favor."	This conscious exploration of whiteness as a racial and social identity and the acknowledgment of the role of whiteness is connected to modern whiteness studies . 
noLabel	Property is any physical or intangible entity that is owned by a person or jointly by a group of people or a legal entity like a corporation.	Depending on the nature of the property, an owner of property has the right to consume, sell, rent, mortgage, transfer, exchange or destroy it, or to exclude others from doing these things . 
noLabel	Access to aid may be limited to those with connections, to those who pay bribes or are forced to give sexual favours .	Equally, those able to do so may manipulate statistics to inflate the number beneficiaries and syphon of the additional assistance .
noLabel	Paul Harteck was director of the physical chemistry department at the University of Hamburg and an advisor to the Heereswaffenamt (HWA, Army Ordnance Office).	On 24 April 1939, along with his teaching assistant Wilhelm Groth, Harteck made contact with the Reichskriegsministerium (RKM, Reich Ministry of War) to alert them to the potential of military applications of nuclear chain reactions.
noLabel	Family life or sex education in the public schools, which traditionally has consisted largely of providing factual information at the secondary school level, is the most general or pervasive approach to preventing pregnancy among adolescents..	Adolescents who begin having sexual intercourse need to understand the importance of using an effective contraceptive every time they have sex.
noLabel	In addition to these three comprehensive theories of unemployment, there are a few categorizations of unemployment that are used to more precisely model the effects of unemployment within the economic system.	The main types of unemployment include structural unemployment which focuses on structural problems in the economy and inefficiencies inherent in labour markets including a mismatch between the supply and demand of laborers with necessary skill sets.
noLabel	Critics of the nonpartisan blanket primary object to calling it an open primary, and one judge in California even barred proponents from using the term in their advertisements.	Additionally, critics also note the strong possibility of two candidates from the same party advancing to the second round; this becomes increasingly likely when one party runs drastically fewer candidates than another and thus faces less vote-splitting.
noLabel	The ruler of Japan was known as either 大和大王/大君 (Yamato-ōkimi, Grand King of Yamato), 倭王/倭国王 (Wa-ō/Wakoku-ō, King of Wa, used externally), or 治天下大王 (ame-no-shita shiroshimesu ōkimi or sumera no mikoto, Grand King who rules all under heaven, used internally) in Japanese and Chinese sources prior to the 7th century.	The oldest documented use of the word "tennō" is on a wooden slat, or mokkan, that was unearthed in Asuka-mura, Nara Prefecture in 1998 and dated back to the reign of Emperor Temmu and Empress Jitō.
noLabel	In ancient Athens, sexual attraction between men was the norm with writers as Plato and Aristophanes writing extensive treatises on the benefits of homosexual love.	In the Levant, however, persons who committed homosexual acts were stoned to death at the same period in history that Socrates dallied with young Alcibiades.
noLabel	On December 22, 2010, Obama signed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010, a bill that provides for repeal of the Don't ask, don't tell policy of 1993 that has prevented gay and lesbian people from serving openly in the United States Armed Forces .	Repealing "Don't ask, don't tell" had been a key campaign promise that Obama had made during the 2008 presidential campaign . 
noLabel	Since 1993, a complex structure for donor coordination has been put in place in an effort to balance competing American and European positions, facilitate agenda-setting, reduce duplication, and foster synergies .	The overall monitoring of the donors' activities was assigned to the Ad-Hoc Liaison Committee, which was established in November 1993, operates on the basis of consensus, and aims at promoting the dialogue between the partners of the "triangular partnership", namely the donors, Israel, and the PNA .
noLabel	Did the defendant give the state courts an adequate opportunity to decide "the constitutionality of the 'words' part of the statute"?	The United States Supreme Court will not consider the question of whether a state statute is unconstitutional unless the question is first raised in state court .
noLabel	No other nuclear explosion ever created a firestorm, including detonations of up to 15 megatons beside naturally forested islands-Bikini and Eniwetok Atoll, which failed to ignite the trees due to the high (80%) air humidity and its effects both on ignition and thermal pulse transmission .	Targeting oil wells instead of cities, as was done in the final TTAPS paper to compensate for reduced estimates of city firestorm soot emission, reduces the moisture effect, but the soot doesn't rise high enough from burning oil wells for widespread climatic effects, as proved in 1991 when Iraq set fire to all of Kuwait’s oil fields. 
noLabel	Next, Dawkins questions whether the Bible really does provide a suitable moral framework, and contends that the texts are of dubious origin and veracity, are internally contradictory and, examined closely, describe a system of morals that any civilised person should find poisonous .	He describes the Old Testament as the root of Judaism, Christianity and Islam; and, as example, readings are given of Deuteronomy 13 which instructs believers to kill any friend or family member who favours serving other gods, and Numbers 31 where Moses, angered at the mercy his victorious forces show in taking women and children captive, instructs them to kill all save virgin girls, who are to be taken as slaves: an act Dawkins describes as genocide.
noLabel	Later the same day, he said that his previous statement was incorrect, and that it was in fact based on a letter from the State Department to WikiLeaks .	On 8 December 2010, the Wau Holland Foundation released a press statement, saying it has filed a legal action against PayPal for blocking its account used for WikiLeaks payments and for libel due to PayPal's allegations of "illegal activity" . 
noLabel	Acne is fairly common among anabolic steroid users, mostly due to stimulation of the sebaceous glands by increased testosterone levels .	Conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) can accelerate the rate of premature baldness for males genetically predisposed, but testosterone itself can produce baldness in females . 
noLabel	The blockade of the Gaza Strip refers to a land, air, and sea blockade on the Gaza Strip by Israel and Egypt since June 2007, a more severe version of restrictions which began in 2001.	Israel eased the blockade for non-military goods in June 2010, and Egypt reopened the Rafah border crossing in 2011 for persons . 
noLabel	Afghanistan, Bahrain, China, Cuba, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Madagascar, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Thailand, Turkey, Vietnam, and Yemen do not consider themselves bound by Article 22.	Some interpret this article as allowing disputes to be referred to the International Court of Justice only with the consent of all involved parties . 
noLabel	By 8 August 1945, newspapers in the U.S. were reporting that broadcasts from Radio Tokyo had described the destruction observed in Hiroshima.	"Practically all living things, human and animal, were literally seared to death", Japanese radio announcers said in a broadcast received by Allied sources .
noLabel	336), three online poker companies were indicted for violating U.S. laws that prohibit the acceptance of any financial instrument in connection with unlawful Internet gambling, that is, Internet gambling that involves a "bet or wager" that is illegal under the laws of the state where the bet is made .	The indictment alleges that the companies used fraudulent methods to evade this law, for example, by disguising online gambling payments as purchases of merchandise, and by investing money in a local bank in return for the bank's willingness to process online poker transactions .
noLabel	Prominent African American academics Henry Louis Gates and Lani Guinier, while favoring affirmative action, have argued that in practice, it has led to recent black immigrants and their children being greatly overrepresented at elite institutions, at the expense of the historic African American community made up of descendants of slaves .	In 2006, Jian Li, a Chinese undergraduate at Yale University, filed a civil rights complaint with the Office for Civil Rights against Princeton University, claiming that his race played a role in their decision to reject his application for admission .
noLabel	Sankei Shimbun, a Japanese national newspaper, while expressing a support for combating discrimination, expressed doubt on the impartiality of the report, pointing out that Doudou Diène never visited Japan before and his short tour was arranged by a Japanese NGO, IMADR (International Movement Against All Forms of Discrimination).	The chairman of the organization is Professor Kinhide Mushakoji (武者小路公秀), who is a board member (and the former director of the board) of the International Institute of the Juche Idea (主体思想国際研究所), an organization whose stated purpose is to propagate the official ideology of North Korea . 
noLabel	In late November 2006, Vatican insiders told the international press that the Pope had a routine examination of the heart .	A few days later an unconfirmed rumor emerged that Pope Benedict had undergone an operation in preparation for an eventual bypass operation but this rumor was only published by a small left-wing Italian newspaper and was never confirmed by any Vatican insider . 
noLabel	However, Los Angeles has become more dense over the past half-century, principally due to small lot zoning and a high demand for housing due to population growth.	The city of Los Angeles has increased its density rate up to approximately 7,000 people per square mile in the year 2000, however that is still substantially less than New York City's 27,000 average, San Francisco's 17,000 average, and Chicago's 12,000 average. 
noLabel	In the last twenty years international organizations like International Rivers, Hydropower Reform Coalition, World Commission on Dams, UNEP, World Conservation Union (IUCN), and the World Bank considered changing politics on large dams, as awareness about dams and hydro-energy generation environmental disadvantages grew, especially among affected populations.	Hydro-energy and large dams may not be considered "clean" nor "renewable" sources of electricity because of their serious social and environmental impacts .
noLabel	The chief legal officer of the IDF, Pnina Sharvit-Baruch, advocated establishing a commission of inquiry to respond to the Goldstone report, which she described as "very, very damaging" to Israel's international standing.	She argued that an inquiry was needed to provide Israel with arguments that it had complied with the report's recommendations, rather than to uncover actual war crimes . 
noLabel	Starting in the late 18th century, and throughout the 19th century, rights, as a concept and claim, gained increasing political, social and philosophical importance in Europe.	Movements emerged which demanded freedom of religion, the abolition of slavery, rights for women, rights for those who did not own property and universal suffrage .
noLabel	The report saw an overarching need to join up the threads of law enforcement and recommended that people-smuggling should be treated as per any other area of organised crime and that the Immigration Service should develop joint intelligence cells to enable it to liaise more effectively with other law enforcement agencies.	It noted as well that the controls on movement across Europe were only as strong as the weakest point within the member states and that 61% of forgeries were European documents. 
noLabel	Czech prime minister Mirek Topolánek, the current boss of the EU presidency, said through his spokesman for the presidency issues, Mr Jiří Potužník, that he understood the Israeli actions to be defensive in character.	Pressure from some old EU member countries has led Mr Potužník to retract the statement and apologise for this actual attitude of the current EU presidency that was not allowed to become the official attitude of the EU .
noLabel	This was a far cry from Justice Clarence Thomas' dissent, which stated that abortion was not a right contained in the Constitution, and sharply criticized the majority and concurring opinions.	Chief Justice William Rehnquist, along with Antonin Scalia, and Thomas have consistently said that they do not believe abortion is a protected right, and have pointed out that "privacy" is not explicitly mentioned in the Constitution.
noLabel	This type of advertising focuses upon using celebrity power, fame, money, popularity to gain recognition for their products and promote specific stores or products.	Advertisers often advertise their products, for example, when celebrities share their favorite products or wear clothes by specific brands or designers.
noLabel	" However, in February 2008 he voted against HR 2082, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, which included provisions that would have prevented the CIA from waterboarding prisoners.	Obama voted against the Military Commissions Act of 2006 and later voted to restore habeas corpus to those detained by the U.S. (which had been stripped by the Military Commissions Act) .
noLabel	In the United States, Canada and Australia primary and secondary education together are sometimes referred to as K-12 education, and in New Zealand Year 1–13 is used.	The purpose of secondary education can be to give common knowledge, to prepare for higher education or to train directly in a profession. 
noLabel	Gun control laws and policies vary greatly around the world with some countries, such as China, having very strict limits on gun possession and others, such as the United States, having relatively modest limits.	In some countries, the topic remains a source of intense debate with proponents generally arguing the dangers of widespread gun ownership, and opponents generally arguing individual rights of self-protection as well as individual liberties in general.
noLabel	According to Fetzer, (2000) opposition to immigration is common in many countries because of issues of national, cultural or religious identity.	The phenomenon has been studied especially in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States, as well as Europe in recent years.
noLabel	During the 2008–2009 conflict, a large section of the residents of Ashkelon, a southern coastal city put in range of Grad-type rockets since the beginning of the conflict, fled the city for the relative safety of central and northern Israel .	On January 10–11, according to Israeli media, 40 percent of the residents fled the city, despite calls by the Mayor to stay . 
noLabel	However, some surveys suggest that the cultural adherents or even outright religious adherents of Buddhism could number as high as 50% to 80% of the population, or about 660 million to over 1 billion .	Some estimates for Taoism as high as 400 million or about 30% of the total population, but Adherents.com argues that these are actually numbers for Chinese folk religion or Chinese traditional religion, not Confucianism and Taoism themselves . 
noLabel	In many counties, Mexican Americans were excluded from serving as jurors in court cases, especially in those that involved a Mexican American defendant.	In many areas across the Southwest, they lived in separate residential areas, due to laws and real estate company policies . 
noLabel	Lotteries are sometimes described as a regressive tax, albeit a voluntary one, since those most likely to buy tickets, and to spend a larger proportion of their money on them, are typically less affluent people.	The astronomically high odds against winning the larger prizes have also led to the epithets of a "tax on stupidity" and a "math tax" (or both epithets combined gives "tax on the mathematically inept").
noLabel	In a more blatant example, Fretter Appliance stores claimed "I’ll give you five pounds of coffee if I can’t beat your best deal".	While initially they gave away that quantity, they later redefined them as "Fretter pounds", which, unsurprisingly, were much lighter than standard pounds. 
noLabel	Of the five members with veto power, USA, UK, and France recognized the declaration of independence, and China has expressed concern, while Russia considers it illegal.	"In its declaration of independence, Kosovo committed itself to the highest standards of democracy, including freedom and tolerance and justice for citizens of all ethnic backgrounds", Bush said on February 19, 2008 .
noLabel	Requiring individuals to participate in physical education activities, such as dodge ball, flag football, and other competitive sports remains a controversial subject because of the social impact these have on young children.	It is, however, important to note that many school budgets have seen cutbacks and in some cases physical education programs have been cut.
noLabel	Many brawlers tend to lack mobility, preferring a less mobile, more stable platform and have difficulty pursuing fighters who are fast on their feet.	They may also have a tendency to ignore combination punching in favour of continuous beat-downs with one hand and by throwing slower, more powerful single punches (such as hooks and uppercuts).
noLabel	Quebec's policy seek to promote interculturalism, welcoming people of all origins while insisting that they integrate into Quebec's majority French-speaking society .	In 2008, a Consultation Commission on Accommodation Practices Related to Cultural Differences, headed by sociologist Gerard Bouchard and philosopher Charles Taylor, recognized that Quebec is a de facto pluralist society, but that the Canadian multiculturalism model "does not appear well suited to conditions in Quebec" . 
noLabel	Some of the factors suggested as causes of the gender imbalance are warfare (excess of females, notably in the wake of WWI in western Europe, and WWII, particularly in the Soviet Union); sex-selective abortion and infanticide (excess of males, notably in China as a result of the one-child policy, or in India); and large-scale migration, such as that by male labourers unable to bring their families with them (as in Qatar and other Gulf countries).	Gender imbalance may result in the threat of social unrest, especially in the case of an excess of low-status young males unable to find spouses, and being recruited into the service of militaristic political factions.
noLabel	In explaining these trends, Behiels (2010) synthesizes recent major studies and reports that "a great many journalists, political advisors, and politicians argue that a new political party paradigm is emerging"; that is, that Canada has recently undergone a watershed political realignment, the sort of political upheaval that happens rarely and often lasts for many years.	In terms of the results of the national elections of 2004, 2006, and 2008, as well as Stephen Harper's political endurance, many Canadian experts, says Behiels, are generally agreed .
noLabel	|- Organization of American States The Secretary General of the Organization of American States (OAS), José Miguel Insulza, expressed today his "absolute rejection" of the Israeli bombing of the Gaza Strip and urged its immediate halt.	At the same time, he called for restoration of the cease-fire, an end to the embargo on the Gaza Strip, and the establishment of a new peace initiative .
noLabel	Germany, for example, has expelled migrants when their labor was no longer needed, rather explicitly categorizing their relation to Germany as one of convenience.	The 'ghettos' associated with multiculturalism are considered by proponents of the Canadian federal policies to be actually preventing the appearance of unilingual ghettos, as Turks in Germany for instance have no loyalty to Germany and no affinity for its language or culture. 
noLabel	According to a report in Sabah, photographs and information from various media sources helped in the identification of the soldiers, and Turkish intelligence agents apparently tracked down the soldiers on Facebook and Twitter .	However, a Ynet report later revealed that the soldiers listed as having taken part in the raid had already completed their military service by the time of the raid, and that the names included those of a Golani Brigade maintenance officer, a Paratroopers Brigade company commander, and an Artillery Corps battery commander.
noLabel	It was opened in January 2004 and the school takes students directly into the school provided they have an active background in the sports offered by the school.	When the school had its first intake, many students applied who were judged to excel in their sport but were posted to the Normal (Academic) or Normal (technical) streams.
noLabel	It would cause enormous problems for families living near the county boundary, with some children on a five-term year and others on the traditional three-term pattern.	"They are asking for trouble if they try to ram this policy through without getting the support of a clear majority of schools."
noLabel	In a 1973 court case, a federal judge created one of the first mandated quotas when he ruled that half of the Bridgeport, Connecticut Police Department's new employees must be either black or Puerto Rican .	In 1974, the Department of Justice and the United Steelworkers of America came to an agreement on the largest-to-then quota program, for steel unions . 
noLabel	Justice John G. Roberts Jr. argued that while companies can provide parental filters on such violent games, "any 13-year-old can bypass [them] in about five minutes.	" Several questions centered on the controversial game Postal 2, where the player can urinate on non-player characters and set them ablaze, among other violent acts .
noLabel	The WWF was first formed in 1961 after a group of passionate conservationists signed what is now referred to as the Morges Manifesto.	Fifty years on, WWF is currently operating in over 100 countries across 5 continents with a current listing of over 5 million supporters. 
noLabel	One of the major problems with the NAIRU theory is that no one knows exactly what the NAIRU is (while it clearly changes over time).	The margin of error can be quite high relative to the actual unemployment rate, making it hard to use the NAIRU in policy-making. 
noLabel	In 2009, eight American and three European authorities, writing in the leading electrical engineers' professional journal, didn't find "a credible and firm technical limit to the amount of wind energy that can be accommodated by electricity grids".	In Fact, not one of more than 200 international studies, nor official studies for the eastern and western U.S. regions, nor the International Energy Agency, has found major costs or technical barriers to reliably integrating up to 30% variable renewable supplies into the grid, and in some studies much more .
noLabel	So-called neutron bombs (enhanced radiation weapons) have been constructed which release a larger fraction of their energy as ionizing radiation (specifically, neutrons), but these are all thermonuclear devices which rely on the nuclear fusion stage to produce the extra radiation.	The energy dynamics of pure fission bombs always remain at about 6% yield of the total in radiation, as a prompt result of fission. 
noLabel	During the war, Norwegian medics said that they had found traces of depleted uranium, a radioactive and genotoxic material used in some types of munition, in some Gaza residents who were wounded .	Lawyers who brought back soil samples from Gaza said that areas where these samples were taken contained up to 75 tons of depleted uranium .
noLabel	" Of Democratic National Convention delegates in 2004, 75% believed that abortion should be generally available, and 2% believed that abortion should not be permitted.	The same poll showed that 49% of all Democratic voters believed that abortion should be generally available to those who want it, while 13% believed that it should not be permitted . 
noLabel	Parent-child relationships have also been found to be very influential in whether or not a student decides to stay in school.	The better the relationship, as demonstrated through positive interaction and parental involvement, the more likely the student will stay in school .
noLabel	Pro-choice advocates argue that illegalization of abortion increases the incidence of unsafe abortions, as the availability of professional abortion services decreases, and leads to increased maternal mortality.	According to a global study collaboratively conducted by the World Health Organization and the Guttmacher Institute, most unsafe abortions occur where abortion is illegal . 
noLabel	"Natural learning" refers to a type of learning-on-demand where children pursue knowledge based on their interests and parents take an active part in facilitating activities and experiences conducive to learning but do not rely heavily on textbooks or spend much time "teaching", looking instead for "learning moments" throughout their daily activities.	Parents see their role as that of affirming through positive feedback and modeling the necessary skills, and the child's role as being responsible for asking and learning. 
noLabel	The exploitation of the forests in Brazil for mining activities such as gold mining has also significantly increased the risk of mercury poisoning and contamination of the ecosystem and water .	Mercury poisoning can affect the foodchain and impact upon wildlife both on land and in the rivers but can also affect plants and affect the crops of farmers who are also looking to exploit areas of the forests.
noLabel	These discrepancies about the current situation of violence in Iraq —which has important political connotations, especially for those countries that participated in the invasion— and whether Iraqis are eligible for protection or not has enabled some countries not only to reject asylum applications, but also to repatriate asylum-seekers back to Iraq .	The UNHCR has repeatedly condemned the UK, Sweden, the Netherlands and Norway, among other European countries, for forcibly repatriating Iraqis when the situation back in their homeland is still not safe for them.
noLabel	The word monarch is derived from the Greek μονάρχης (from μόνος, "one/singular," and ἄρχων, "leader/ruler/chief") through the Latin: monarcha (mono: "one" + arch "chief") which referred to a single, at least nominally, absolute ruler.	In current usage the word monarchy generally refers to a traditional system of hereditary rule, as elective monarchies are rare in the modern period.
noLabel	As a result, nearly 50% of the interest payments are now leaving the country, which is different from past years when interest was paid to U.S. citizens holding the public debt.	Interest expenses are projected to grow dramatically as the U.S. debt increases and interest rates rise from very low levels in 2009 to more typical historical levels.
noLabel	The first of these bills, was the Teachers and First Responders Back to Work Act of 2011, , which would have provided $30 billion in state aid to hire teachers and $5 billion for first responders .	The bill was introduced by Senator Robert Menendez on October 17, 2011 and failed in a 50-50 vote for cloture on October 20, 2011 .
noLabel	Property rights are protected in the current laws of most states, usually in their constitution or in a bill of rights.	Protection is also prescribed in the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 17, and in the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), Protocol 1. 
noLabel	Monaco and Switzerland reserve the right to apply their own legal principles on the entry of foreigners into their labour markets .	The United Kingdom does not regard the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962 and Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1968 as constituting any form of racial discrimination . 
noLabel	Criticism of the government and advocacy of unpopular ideas that people may find distasteful or against public policy, such as racism, sexism, and other hate speech are almost always permitted.	There are exceptions to these general protections, including the Miller test for obscenity, child pornography laws, speech that incites imminent lawless action, and regulation of commercial speech such as advertising.
noLabel	Investigations in 2002 and 2007 by the state Ombudsman and Attorney General uncovered violations of the state’s open meeting law by the Attorney General’s Office.	According to Carrie Ann Sitren of the Goldwater Institute, this was “a clear attempt to silence people in the community who have been critical of the board’s actions, and have made good-faith attempts to ensure the district is spending taxpayer money wisely.” None of the records requested were private or confidential, and thus, should have been readily available to be released to the public, according to the assistant state Ombudsman .
noLabel	In 1981, Rangel shifted to become chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Oversight, which gave him power in dealing with the Reagan administration's cuts in social spending .	By 1983 he was the third-ranking member on Ways and Means, and worked well with its powerful chairman, Dan Rostenkowski .
noLabel	This was the only time since the early 1900s that Webb County had supported a Republican candidate for any office on a partisan ballot.	More than four million Texans voted for Hutchison that year — still the record highest number of actual votes ever cast in Texas for a non-presidential candidate (George W. Bush received 4,526,917 votes in Texas in the 2004 election).
noLabel	The alien conspiracy theory and queer ladder of mobility theories state that ethnicity and 'outsider' status (immigrants, or those not within the dominant ethno-centric groups) and their influences are thought to dictate the prevalence of organise crime in society .	The alien theory posits that the contemporary structures of organised crime gained prominence during the 1860s in Sicily and that elements of the Sicilian population are responsible for the foundation of most European and North American organised crime, made up of Italian-dominated crime families.
noLabel	Widespread protests against the Vietnam War had not yet begun, but with that one phrase, Ali articulated the reason to oppose the war for a generation of young Americans, and his words served as a touchstone for the racial and antiwar upheavals that would rock the 1960s.	Ali's example inspired Martin Luther King Jr. – who had been reluctant to alienate the Johnson Administration and its support of the civil rights agenda – to voice his own opposition to the war for the first time . 
noLabel	At a suggestion of the Conservatives, Trudeau's government thus agreed to a committee of Senators and MPs to further examine the bill of rights as well as the patriation plan.	During this time, 90 hours were spent on the bill of rights alone, all filmed for television, while civil rights experts and advocacy groups put forward their perceptions on the Charter's flaws and omissions and how to remedy them .
noLabel	Americans for Limited Government (ALG) describes itself as a non-partisan, nationwide network committed to advancing free-market reforms, private property rights and core American liberties .	Its primary concerns are tax and spending reform, property rights restoration, school choice, limiting the size of government, and political term limits.
noLabel	Helen Caldicott has said: ".. in essence, a nuclear reactor is just a very sophisticated and dangerous way to boil water -- analogous to cutting a pound of butter with a chain saw.	" These critics of nuclear power advocate the use of energy conservation, efficient energy use, and appropriate renewable energy technologies to create our energy future . 
noLabel	Many of these same guns are being recovered from crime scenes in Arizona and throughout Mexico, which is artificially inflating ATF's eTrace statistics of U.S. origin guns seized in Mexico.	Two of these guns recovered at the crime scene are linked to the murder of Customs and Border Protection Agent Brian Terry on December 14, 2010 .
noLabel	Smoking in the Americas probably had its origins in the incense-burning ceremonies of shamans but was later adopted for pleasure, or as a social tool .	The smoking of tobacco, as well as various hallucinogenic drugs was used to achieve trances and to come into contact with the spirit world. 
noLabel	Scientific understanding of the process of extinction is insufficient to accurately make predictions about the impact of deforestation on biodiversity .	Most predictions of forestry related biodiversity loss are based on species-area models, with an underlying assumption that as the forest declines species diversity will decline similarly .
noLabel	On the one hand, in the legal world, Georgetown Law Professor Gary Solis, in his 2010 book entitled The Law of Armed Conflict: International Humanitarian Law in War, writes: "Assassinations and targeted killings are very different acts" .	The use of the term assassination is opposed, as it denotes murder, whereas people who are allegedly terrorists are targeted in self-defense, and thus it is viewed as a killing, but not a crime . 
noLabel	Data regarding the P-2 centrifuge, which Ahmadinejad has claimed will quadruple production of enriched uranium, was provided only several days before the report was published; the IAEA plan to discuss this issue further in December.	In response to the report the US has vowed to push for more sanctions, whilst Iran has called for an apology from the US . 
noLabel	In conjunction with the WADA International Standard for Laboratories, all samples are analyzed at laboratories that have been accredited by the World Anti-Doping Agency.	In the United States there are only two WADA Accredited labs, the UCLA Olympic Analytical Laboratory in Los Angeles, CA., and the Sports Medicine Research and Testing Laboratory(SMRTL)in Salt Lake City, Utah .
noLabel	For example, Koreans brought up overseas often face discrimination by Koreans living in South Korea upon their return who may not speak the language properly or have developed a different culture.	North Koreans who immigrated to South Korea, despite sharing the same Korean blood and history, face discrimination as they do not share all of the elements of Korean identity, such as speaking the Korean language with an accent.
noLabel	Along these lines, the noted German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche spoke of the positive physiological effects of abstinence: "The reabsorption of semen by the blood .. perhaps prompts the stimulus of power, the unrest of all forces towards the overcoming of resistances ..	The feeling of power has so far mounted highest in abstinent priests and hermits" (quoted by Walter Kaufman in his classic, Nietzsche: Philosopher, Psychologist, Antichrist, p.&nbsp;222).
noLabel	To further the pressure on caregivers, elderly lives are increasing and there are fewer siblings to share elder care responsibilities as there were, for example, during the baby boom.	However, one issue to note about this effect is people taking advantage of others due to rising costs of items needed for care.
noLabel	The announcement in 1998 that IND had published its instructions on the internet was a tangible sign that the organisation was looking to the future possibilities offered by the IT revolution and was set for modernisation .	The document "Fairer, faster, firmer" outlined what it considered to be the failings of the previous decade and set out its ideas for the future.
noLabel	Many developing countries have not developed the financial institutions that developed countries rely on for the efficient functioning of their economies.	The financial institutions that do exist in developing countries are often designed for economies with a strong role built for the state, and often with a great deal of corruption already existing.
noLabel	Deviance, in a sociological context, describes actions or behaviors that violate social norms, including formally-enacted rules (e.g., crime), as well as informal violations of social norms (e.g., rejecting folkways and mores).	It is the purview of sociologists, psychologists, psychiatrists, and criminologists to study how these norms are created, how they change over time and how they are enforced.
noLabel	In the Soviet Union (USSR), voices against nuclear weapons were few and far between since there was no widespread Freedom of speech and Freedom of the press as political factors.	Certain citizens who had become prominent enough to safely criticize the Soviet government, such as Andrei Sakharov, did speak out against nuclear weapons, but that was to little effect. 
noLabel	The controversy looks set to spread to the Zulu, whose present-day king Goodwill Zwelithini has called for the reintroduction of customary circumcision after it was banned by Zulu king Shaka in the 19th century .	Similar issues, though on a smaller scale, have arisen with traditional circumcision of Aborigines in remote areas of central Australia .
noLabel	The role of the bombings in Japan's surrender and the U.S.'s ethical justification for them has been the subject of scholarly and popular debate for decades.	J. Samuel Walker wrote in an April 2005 overview of recent historiography on the issue, "the controversy over the use of the bomb seems certain to continue."
noLabel	He said that it can be assumed that this is considered a possibility by defense forces, along with many other scenarios, but was improperly turned into a definitive fact .	Anonymous Israeli cabinet members described this information as "political spin", saying that information concerning violent resistance had not been presented to them.
noLabel	In August 2007, the Special Rapporteur, Doudou Diène, reported to the General Assembly "on contemporary forms of racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance on the manifestations of defamation of religions and in particular on the serious implications of Islamophobia on the enjoyment of all rights."	Among other recommendations, the Special Rapporteur recommended that the Member States promote dialogue between cultures, civilizations, and religions taking into consideration: .
noLabel	The population stressors theory predicts that the East German sex ratio should have been lower in 1991, when East Germany's economy collapsed, than expected from its previous years.	Furthermore, the theory suggests that East German birth sex ratios should generally be lower than the observed sex ratio in West Germany for the same years, over time.
noLabel	Under the East Sussex plan, there would be no change to contracts stipulating that staff should teach for 190 days a year and train for a further five.	But the terms would be reorganised to reduce problems of exhaustion that build up during the current calendar, particularly during the long autumn term.
noLabel	62.2% of those who passed were eligible for the Special/Express course and the remaining 35.6% were eligible for either the Normal (Academic) or Normal (Technical) courses.	1133 pupils (2.2%) of the cohort assessed was not ready for secondary school in 2006 or are more suited for vocational training.
noLabel	The French Revolution was a time of upheaval, especially towards traditional ideology, in almost every sense: the current monarch, King Louis XVI, was executed; the Catholic Church was all but abolished; a new calendar was created; and a new Republican government was established.	In order to effectively illustrate the differences between the new Republic and the old regime, the leaders needed to implement a new set of symbols to be celebrated instead of the old religious and monarchical symbolism.
noLabel	On the night of 26 to 27 October at the EU summit, the politicians made two important decisions to reduce the risk of a possible contagion to other countries, in the case of a Greek default.	The first decision was to require all European banks to achieve 9% capitalization, to make them strong enough to withstand those financial losses that potentially could erupt from a Greek default.
noLabel	In one leak from April 2007, then-Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs Karen Hughes requests to verify a video of a 12-year-old child soldier forced to kill a Pakistani hostage.	Thomas Joscelyn, a senior fellow at the think tank Foundation for Defense of Democracies, remarked that "the documents demonstrate just how pervasive the Taliban’s brutality is in this fight" .
noLabel	Views toward the Holocaust among Palestinians&nbsp;– and around the Arab world&nbsp;– range from outright denial to diminishing the full extent of the genocide.	Few, if any, prominent Arabs from Mideast nations have made publicized visits to Auschwitz&nbsp;– but Israel's Arab community is an exception.
noLabel	A good example of differential integration and acculturation based on the immigrant manifesting one communicative modality and worldview while their host culture manifests a different one is to be found in Anne Fadiman's (1997) book The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down about a Laotian girl who has immigrated to Merced, California and who falls ill. How her parents interpret her illness is very different from how her doctors interpret her illness.	The conflicts and miscommunications that are illustrated in this study can best be explained by applying Kramer's theory of Dimensional Accural and Dissociation.
noLabel	Employment practices that do not directly discriminate against a protected category may still be illegal if they produce a disparate impact on members of a protected group.	Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits employment practices that have a discriminatory impact, unless they are related to job performance. 
noLabel	According to René Descartes, rationality is built first upon the realization of the absolute truth "I think therefore I am", which requires no faith.	All other rationalizations are built outward from this realization, and are subject to falsification at any time with the arrival of new evidence. 
noLabel	A study of gun use in the 1990s, by David Hemenway at the Harvard Injury Control Research Center, found that criminal use of guns is far more common than self-defense use of guns .	By the Kleck study, however, most successful preventions of victimizations are accomplished without a shot being fired, which are not counted as a self-defense firearm usage by either the Hemenway or McDowall studies .
noLabel	Corruption here is part of the dilemma faced by any reforming socialist state, where the state needs to play an active role in creating and regulating markets, while at the same time its own intervention places extra burdens on administrative budgets.	Instead of being able to reduce the size of its bureaucratic machinery (and therefore opportunities for corruption), it is instead pressed to expand further.
noLabel	The economic effects of organised crime have been approached from a number of both theoretical and empirical positions, however the nature of such activity allows for misrepresentation .	The level of taxation taken by a nation-state, rates of unemployment, mean household incomes and level of satisfaction with government and other economic factors all contribute to the likelihood of criminals to participate in tax evasion, As most organised crime is perpetrated in the liminal state between legitimate and illegitimate markets, these economic factors must adjusted to ensure the optimal amount of taxation without promoting the practice of tax evasion .
noLabel	It was enough of a problem in the 1930s to prompt questions in the House of Commons which, unfortunately, only give a tantalising glimpse of the background .	The main difference in those days, and until after World War 2, was that it was a problem restricted to the marriage of foreign women to British men.
noLabel	Currently, British players in the North American NBA are Ben Gordon (who was raised in the United States) and Luol Deng (a Sudanese refugee who is now naturalised in the UK).	Another NBA player, Kelenna Azubuike, was born in London (leaving for the United States as a teenager to further his basketball career), but was denied British citizenship in December 2007 because of problems with his parents' immigration status at his birth.
noLabel	The combination of the immense pressure to excel within their education and the extreme pampering is reported to have resulted in a stunting of social and emotional growth .	The perceived maladjustment of the Little Emperors is an exaggerated subject within the media; "the government has [tried] to cope with the Little Emperor problem through frequent cautionary stories in the press.
noLabel	The Church's denial of the use of condoms has provoked criticism especially in countries where AIDS and HIV infections are at epidemic proportions.	The Church maintains that countries like Kenya where behavioral changes like abstinence are endorsed instead of condom use, are experiencing greater progress towards controlling the disease than those countries just promoting condoms .
noLabel	No salted bomb has ever been atmospherically tested and as far as is publicly known none have ever been built .	The United Kingdom did test a 1 kiloton bomb incorporating a small amount of cobalt as an experimental radiochemical tracer at their Tadje testing site in Maralinga range, Australia on September 14, 1957.
noLabel	There is no excuse for today's attack on a UNRWA building that killed 40 people, which represents an egregious violation of international humanitarian law.	The Ministry therefore calls on Hamas to cease all rocket attacks on Israel immediately and on Israel to stop its military action.
noLabel	On 11 November 2008, a court in Insein Prison sentenced 14 88 Generation Students Group members (Arnt Bwe Kyaw, Kyaw Kyaw Htwe aka Marky, Kyaw Min Yu aka Jimmy, Mar Mar Oo, Min Zeya, Nilar Thein, Pannate Tun, Sanda Min aka Shwee, Than Tin aka Kyee Than, Thet Thet Aung, Thin Thin Aye aka Mie Mie, Thet Zaw, Zaw Zaw Min and Zay Ya aka Kalama) arrested during the anti-government protests to 65 years in prison.	The government used a variety of laws including the foreign exchange act and the video and electronics act which prohibit Burmese nationals from holding foreign currency or from owning electronic and video equipment without a permit .
noLabel	Another example of advertising in film is in I, Robot, where main character played by Will Smith mentions his Converse shoes several times, calling them "classics," because the film is set far in the future.	I, Robot and Spaceballs also showcase futuristic cars with the Audi and Mercedes-Benz logos clearly displayed on the front of the vehicles.
noLabel	: Foreign Minister Uri Rosenthal wrote a letter to the parliament calling on Dutch NGOs not to join the international flotilla headed to the Gaza Strip.	He wrote that the cabinet believes that the flotilla will "not make the least contribution to a resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict" .
noLabel	Widespread criticism of exit polling has occurred in cases, especially in the United States, where exit-poll results have appeared and/or have provided a basis for projecting winners before all real polls have closed, thereby possibly influencing election results.	In the 1980 U.S. presidential election, NBC predicted a victory for Ronald Reagan at 8:15 pm EST, based on exit polls of 20,000 voters.
noLabel	At first, beginning with the "Report on Manufactures," by the first US Secretary of the Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, advocating tariffs to help protect infant industries, including bounties (subsidies) derived in part from those tariffs, the United States became the leading nation opposed to "free trade" theory.	Southern statesmen agreed with the need to gain American independence but argued with Northern interests over the utility of higher and higher tariffs.
noLabel	" Individuals from the Syrian government, the Palestinian Authority, and a number of Palestinian groups have engaged in various aspects of Holocaust denial .	The three most common positions on the historicity of the Holocaust are: "it never happened; it was greatly exaggerated; the Jews deserved it anyway.
noLabel	For the last ten years, finding a way to do this on a large-scale has been the main goal of research.	Careful work is being done to ensure an efficient process before large-scale production, however once a mechanism is developed, this type of production could solve our energy needs .
noLabel	Since then, corruption has not slowed down as a result of greater economic freedom, but instead has grown more entrenched and severe in its character and scope.	In popular perception, there are more dishonest CCP officials than honest ones, a reversal of the views held in the first decade of reform of the 1980s .
noLabel	The General Social Survey (GSS) is a primary source for data on firearm ownership, with surveys periodically done by other organizations such as Harris Interactive .	In 2004, 36.5% of Americans reported having a gun in their home and in 1997, 40% of Americans reported having a gun in their homes.
noLabel	"Cultural mosaic" () is a term used to describe the mix of ethnic groups, languages and cultures that co-exist within Canadian society .	The idea of a cultural mosaic is intended to champion an ideal of multiculturalism, differently from other systems like the melting pot, which is often used to describe the neighboring United States' ideal of assimilation .
noLabel	Each member state is represented at the conference by four people: two government delegates, an employer delegate and a worker delegate.	All of them have individual voting rights, and all votes are equal, regardless of the population of the delegate's member state.
noLabel	The most common options offered by school choice programs are open enrollment laws that allow students to attend other public schools, private schools, charter schools, tax credit and deductions for expenses related to schooling, vouchers, and homeschooling.	In U.S. political discourse it refers exclusively to programs that would provide public funds to privately run schools, since parents already have the option of sending their child to the private school of their choice (within their economic means).
noLabel	In 2004, a group of real estate developers, led by a major fundraiser to McCain's campaign, Al Hoffman, worked to block state efforts to follow through on restoration works .	McCain said on June 4, 2008 while touring the Everglades, that he supported "adequate funding" for restoration but that it had to be achieved "without sacrificing fiscal responsibility", though he declined to state which CERP programs were irresponsible .
noLabel	He has sat on judging panels for awards as diverse as the Royal Society's Faraday Award and the British Academy Television Awards, and has been president of the Biological Sciences section of the British Association for the Advancement of Science.	In 2004 Balliol College, Oxford instituted the Dawkins Prize, awarded for "outstanding research into the ecology and behaviour of animals whose welfare and survival may be endangered by human activities" .
noLabel	The escrow statute is premised on the legislative finding that, in light of the MSA settling the states' claims against the major cigarette manufacturers, [i]t would be contrary to the policy of the State if tobacco product manufacturers who determine not to enter into such a settlement could use a resulting cost advantage to derive large, short-term profits in the years before liability may arise without ensuring that the State will have an eventual source of recovery from them if they are proven to have acted culpably.	It is thus in the interest of the State to require that such manufacturers establish a reserve fund to guarantee a source of compensation and to prevent such manufacturers from deriving large, short-term profits and then becoming judgment-proof before liability may arise . 
noLabel	According to Sen, women allegedly make up the majority of the world's population, even though this is not the case throughout every country.	While there are typically more women than men in European and North American countries (at around 0.98 to 1 for most of them), the sex ratio of developing countries in Asia, as well as the Middle East, is much lower.
noLabel	Video game addiction, also known as video game overuse, is extreme use of computer and video games that interferes with daily life.	Instances have been reported in which users play compulsively, isolating themselves from family and friends or from other forms of social contact, and focus almost entirely on in-game achievements rather than other life events, and exhibit lack of imagination and mood swings .
noLabel	They were to continue the process for more than five hundred years, clawing back sections of the peninsula from its Moorish occupiers, and a nobleman demonstrated his pedigree by holding up his sword arm to display the filigree of blue-blooded veins beneath his pale skin—proof that his birth had not been contaminated by the dark-skinned enemy.	Sangre azul, blue blood, was thus a euphemism for being a white man—Spain's own particular reminder that the refined footsteps of the aristocracy through history carry the rather less refined spoor of racism .
noLabel	Lines of reasoning such as "I don't own slaves" or "I have very close black friends" to defend oneself) without looking at the larger social mechanisms in which racism operates.	In an article in the journal New Directions for Student Services, Nancy Evans and Robert Reason argued that color-blindness fails to see the "structural, institutional, and societal" levels at which inequalities occur . 
noLabel	In theory, globally harmonized regulations regarding wages, the environment, safety, human rights, and other areas of economic control, would also prevent a "race to the bottom."	Although globally harmonized regulations appear to be far off, there have been a number of moves toward regional agreements about these sorts of institutions.
noLabel	The most successful English Canadian motion picture, the 1982 teen sex comedy Porky's, was directed by an American born and raised director, Bob Clark.	Likewise, the most-successful American motion pictures, Titanic and Avatar, were directed by a Canadian born and raised director, James Cameron . 
noLabel	The main responsibility of the County Administrative Board is to coordinate the development of the county in line with goals set in national politics.	In each county there is also a County Council or landsting which is a policy-making assembly elected by the residents of the county. 
noLabel	In the early twentieth century, most professional bouts took place in the United States and Britain, and champions were recognized by popular consensus as expressed in the newspapers of the day.	Among the great champions of the era were the peerless heavyweight Jim Jeffries and Bob Fitzsimmons, who weighed less than 12 stone (164 pounds), but won world titles at middleweight (1892), light heavyweight (1903), and heavyweight (1897).
noLabel	Under United States law the principal limitations on whether and the extent to which the State may interfere with property rights are set by the Constitution.	The "Takings" clause requires that the government (whether state or federal—for the 14th Amendment's due process clause imposes the 5th Amendment's takings clause on state governments) may take private property only for a public purpose, after exercising due process of law, and upon making "just compensation."
noLabel	We need a comprehensive steroid policy for the good of baseball, and it seems that the union does not want that, said Tom Gordon, a White Sox pitcher who was among those who debated boycotting the tests.	A similar debate, which did not become public, took place among players on at least one National League team, according to a veteran player who was among 40 current or former players, baseball executives and medical officials who were interviewed by The New York Times.
noLabel	We oppose so-called 'harm reduction' strategies as endpoints that promote the false notion that there are safe or responsible ways to use drugs.	That is, strategies in which the primary goal is to enable drug users to maintain addictive, destructive, and compulsive behavior by misleading users about some drug risks while ignoring others.|"Statement on so-called 'Harm Reduction' polices" made at a conference in Brussels, Belgium by signatories of the drug prohibitionist network International Task Force on Strategic Drug Policy . 
noLabel	General Vito Miceli, chief of the SIOS military intelligence agency in 1969, and head of the SID from 1970 to 1974, was arrested in 1974 on charges of "conspiracy against the state."	Following his arrest, the Italian secret services were reorganized by a 24 October 1977 law in an attempt to reassert civilian control over the intelligence agencies.
noLabel	A variety of research has indicated a relationship between men's endorsement of traditionally masculine ideas and characteristics, and his desire for additional muscle .	Some research has suggested this relationship between muscle and masculinity may begin early in life, as boys' action figures are often depicted as super-muscular, often beyond the actual limits of human physiology . 
noLabel	The United States has given the UK considerable assistance with nuclear weapon design and construction since the 1958 US-UK Mutual Defence Agreement.	In 1974 a CIA proliferation assessment noted that "In many cases [Britain's sensitive technology in nuclear and missile fields] is based on technology received from the United States and could not legitimately be passed on without U.S.
noLabel	June 17, 1954: Rocky Marciano vs. Ezzard Charles — For much of the match, it appeared that Charles would become the first former champion to regain the heavyweight crown.	However, in each of the final rounds Marciano unleashed three-minute non-stop striking combinations, earning a close but unanimous victory over Charles.
noLabel	One of the most famous ongoing censorship controversies in Canada has been the dispute between Canada Customs and GLBT retail bookstores such as Little Sister's in Vancouver and Glad Day in Toronto.	Through the 1980s and into the 1990s, Canada Customs frequently stopped material being shipped to the two stores on the grounds of "obscenity" Both stores frequently had to resort to the legal system to challenge the confiscation of their property. 
noLabel	As Sister Nicgorski stated on the day of her arraignment, “If I am guilty of anything, I am guilty of the gospel.” Defendants referenced passages in the Old and New Testaments, such as Leviticus 19:34 ("The stranger who sojourns with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself) and the story of Exodus (“What answer is there for the envoys of the nation?	This: that the Lord has fixed Zion in her place, and the afflicted among God's people shall take refuge there” [Isaiah 14:32]). 
noLabel	Some other voting systems can end up giving a higher chance of victory to a candidate perceived as having extreme views.	Under a first-past-the-post system, voters are often afraid of "wasting" their vote on a candidate unlikely to win, so they cast their vote towards their most preferable choice possible of victory.
noLabel	The Anglo-Corsican Kingdom was a brief period in the history of Corsica (1794–1796) when the island broke with Revolutionary France and sought military protection from Great Britain.	Corsica became an independent kingdom under George III of England, but with its own elected parliament and a written constitution guaranteeing local autonomy and democratic rights. 
noLabel	An amendment to the Code, adopted on June 13, 1934, established the Production Code Administration (PCA), and required all films released on or after July 1, 1934 to obtain a certificate of approval before being released.	For more than thirty years following, virtually all motion pictures produced in the United States and released by major studios adhered to the code.
noLabel	The advertisement will speak about the salient features of the product on offer and the benefit the customer/consumer can derive out of the product.	It can also educate the target audience about the various other details such as the products cost, availability, usage modalities, problems that may arise whiles using it and the probable solutions to those problems etc. 
noLabel	In 2011, it was reported that Joan R. Ginther, a statistics professor, had won four different multi-million dollar jackpots from purchasing scratch-off lottery tickets in Texas.	It was speculated that there was actually a pattern to where and when the winning tickets were sold, and that Professor Ginther had figured out this pattern .
noLabel	In some places these rights are institutionalized or supported by law, local custom, and behaviour, whereas in others they may be ignored or suppressed.	They differ from broader notions of human rights through claims of an inherent historical and traditional bias against the exercise of rights by women and girls in favour of men and boys . 
noLabel	The Republican leadership brought to the floor of the House a constitutional amendment that would limit House members to six two-year terms and members of the U.S. Senate to two six-year terms.	However, this rate of rotation was so slow (the life-tenured Supreme Court averages in the vicinity of twelve years) that the congressional version of term-limits garnered little support among the populist backers of term limits, including U.S.
noLabel	She may have derived the estimate from the informal survey managed by Nick Yee at The Daedalus Project, who notes that caution should be exercised when interpreting that data .	Other critics have satirized the idea of MMORPG addiction, illustrating that the genre has built-in mechanisms for burning-out players, which is contrary to the concept of addiction . 
noLabel	Due to the demographics of the country, the Northern region was too vast for a single club to serve (over twice the size of Wales but with only a quarter the population) and the 5% of the population who happened to live in the rugby-loving borders were not enough to sustain the Southern franchise, leaving just West and East.	There was some talk of the regions being redrawn, with the North being divided in two and the South being absorbed into the West and East regions, but recently two Italian sides have instead taken the vacated places. 
noLabel	Hutchison’s husband, Ray, a prominent Dallas bond attorney, makes slightly less than a half million dollars a year in combined salary and deferred compensation, records provided by her campaign show.	A big stake in ExxonMobil, valued at between $250,000 and $500,000, along with other stock holdings and equity investments, have also helped provide the family yearly dividend income of about $60,000 a year since 2001, records show .
noLabel	In 2011, a meta-analysis of 23 studies (including both randomised controlled trials and observational studies) found reduced risk of prevalent HPV and (though the evidence was less strong) some evidence of reduced risk of new HPV infections .	In another analysis, in which 21 studies were included, there was a statistically significant reduction in prevalence of HPV, but no statistically significant association with new acquisitions was observed . 
noLabel	Lawrence Lessig, along with many other copyleft and free software activists, have criticized the implied analogy with physical property (like land or an automobile).	They argue such an analogy fails because physical property is generally rivalrous while intellectual works are non-rivalrous (that is, if one makes a copy of a work, the enjoyment of the copy does not prevent enjoyment of the original) .
noLabel	The standard medical methods of circumcision through constriction do not meet the requirements of the halakhah for brit milah, because they cause hemostasis, i.e., they stop the flow of blood.	A brit milah, to be conducted properly, requires the use of a specialized surgical knife, called an izmel, which does allow for dam brit. 
noLabel	Following Schenck v. United States, "clear and present danger" became both a public metaphor for First Amendment speech and a standard test in cases before the Court where a United States law limits a citizen's First Amendment rights; the law is deemed to be constitutional if it can be shown that the language it prohibits poses a "clear and present danger".	However, the "clear and present danger" criterion of the Schenck decision was replaced in 1969 by Brandenburg v. Ohio, and the test refined to determining whether the speech would provoke an "imminent lawless action". 
noLabel	According to Jane's Defence Weekly, armed groups in Gaza counted domestically produced anti-armor RPGs like al-Battar and Banna 1 and Banna 2 in their arsenal .	Hamas and Islamic Jihad also manufactured a variety of improvised explosive devices (IEDs), some of which were anti-personnel bombs and others were planted on the sides of roads or underground to be activated against tanks and armored personnel carriers.
noLabel	This achievement was greeted with rapturous applause and Chinese reporters nicknamed him the Dark Horse at first because of his underdog status.	Later, they tried the Knight of Lightning or the Fox or, sometimes, the Pirate, all celebrating his knack for snatching points and peeling away from his opponents' reach.
noLabel	The medical and scientific questions surrounding partial-birth abortion are impacted in the public arena by political and special interest considerations, resulting in a certain degree of media "hype" surrounding this case.	Proponents of abortion rights on the one hand and the right-to-life on the other both decry what they describe as "myths" regarding this procedure that have passed into mainstream American debate on the issue.
noLabel	Article 63 of the UNCAC establishes a CoSP with a mandate to, inter alia, promote and review the implementation of the Convention.	In accordance with Article 63(7), "the Conference shall establish, if it deems necessary, any appropriate mechanism or body to assist in the effective implementation of the Convention". 
noLabel	He recruited Father Daniel Lord, a Jesuit priest and instructor at the Catholic St. Louis University, to write such a code and on March 31, 1930 the board of directors of the Motion Picture Producers and Distributors Association adopted it formally.	This original version especially was once popularly known to as the Hays Code, but it and its later revisions are now commonly called the Production Code. 
noLabel	Beat 'em up: Karateka (1984), with its pioneering rotoscoped animation, and Kung-Fu Master (1984), a Hong Kong cinema-inspired action game, laid the foundations for side-scrolling beat 'em ups with simple gameplay and multiple enemies .	Nekketsu Kōha Kunio-kun (1986), also released as Renegade, deviated from the martial arts themes of earlier game, introducing street brawling to the genre, and set the standard for future beat 'em up games as it introduced the ability to move both horizontally and vertically . 
noLabel	Recent studies on child labor and poverty have suggested that when poor families reach a certain economic threshold where families are able to provide for their basic needs, parents return their children to school.	This has been found to be true, once the threshold has been breached, even if the potential economic value of the children's work has increased since their return to school. 
noLabel	On 14 March, 110,000 people protested in 450 other German towns, with opinion polls indicating 80% of Germans opposed the government's extension of nuclear power .	On March 15, 2011, Angela Merkel said that seven nuclear power plants which went online before 1980 would be temporarily closed and the time would be used to study speedier renewable energy commercialization . 
noLabel	Classical economists reject the conception of cyclical unemployment and alternatively suggest that the invisible hand of free markets will respond quickly to unemployment and underutilization of resources by a fall in wages followed by a rise in employment.	Similarly, Hayek and others from the Austrian school of economics argue that if governments intervene through monetary policy to lower interest rates this will exacerbate unemployment by preventing the market from responding effectively . 
noLabel	Others grant that the fetus has a future like ours, but argue that being deprived of this future is not a significant harm or a significant wrong to the fetus, because there are relatively few psychological connections (continuations of memory, belief, desire and the like) between the fetus as it is now and the adult into which it will develop .	Another criticism is that the argument creates inequalities in the wrongness of killing: as the futures of some people appear to be far more valuable or desirable than the futures of other people, the argument appears to entail that some killings are far more wrong than others, or that some people have a far stronger right to life than others—a conclusion that is taken to be counterintuitive or unacceptable.
noLabel	Cost per conversion Describes the cost of acquiring a customer, typically calculated by dividing the total cost of an ad campaign by the number of conversions.	The definition of "Conversion" varies depending on the situation: it is sometimes considered to be a lead, a sale, or a purchase.
noLabel	Freedom of expression in section 2 also has a more wide-ranging scope than the First Amendment to the United States Constitution's freedom of speech .	In RWDSU v. Dolphin Delivery Ltd. (1986), the Canadian Supreme Court considered picketing of the kind the US First Amendment did not permit, as it was disruptive conduct (though there was some speech involved that the First Amendment might otherwise protect).
noLabel	After 1997, the need for donor support for the current budget and employment generation programs receded due to the PA's improved fiscal performance, and attention was focused instead on infrastructures to the detriment of institution building .	Donors' activity was also characterized by a decline in support for PNGOs, and by a preference to concessionary loans (instead of grants) with generous grace periods, long repayment periods and low interest rates .
noLabel	Many others died as a result of general massacres such as in the Warsaw Uprising where between 120,000 and 200,000 civilians were killed .	The policy of the Germans in Poland included diminishing food rations, conscious lowering of the state of hygiene and depriving the population of medical services.
noLabel	After the institution of slavery the status of Africans was stigmatized, and this stigma was the basis for the more virulent anti-African racism that persisted until the present .African Americans were treated like second-class citizens.	They were denied defense-industry jobs, and when the US entered World War 2, they could only serve in segregated units .
noLabel	It would be up to the people of Alaska to discuss and decide how we would like our society to reflect our values.	" Palin personally supported bills to outlaw late-term abortions and to require parental consent for underage abortions in Alaska, but rebuffed religious conservatives who wanted to legislate restrictions on abortion even though she agreed with the bills . 
noLabel	Pending her release from jail, the political atmosphere would have changed because of a new military leadership that may not be as "cosmopolitan" and "practical" in dealing both with her and external players.	The British ambassador to Myanmar, Andrew Heyn, also said: "What they the junta do when Suu Kyi is released will send a message.
noLabel	Archaeological evidence shows that the homo erectus had lived in the region now known as Burma as early as 750,000 years ago, and the homo sapiens about 11,000 BCE, in a Stone Age culture called the Anyathian, when plants and animals were first domesticated and polished stone tools appeared in Burma .	The Bronze Age arrived circa 1500 BCE when people in the region were turning copper into bronze, growing rice, and domesticating chickens and pigs; they were among the first people in the world to do so.
noLabel	$10 million of the money was to be transferred to the BATF for Project Gunrunner to hire personnel and open facilities in 6 new locations.	The use of "stimulus" money to fund Project Gunrunner is controversial, given the ATF Phoenix Field Division's reported initiative of allowing known criminals purchase guns in an effort to gain intelligence on the cartels (Operation Fast and Furious).
noLabel	Advocates of free-market socialism, such as Jaroslav Vanek, point out that genuine free markets are not possible under conditions of private ownership over productive property because the class differences and inequalities in income and power that ensue from this arrangement enable interests of the dominant class to skew the market to their favor, either in the form of monopoly and market power, or by utilizing their wealth and resources to pass government regulations and policies that benefit their specific business interests .	Additionally, Vanek states that workers in a socialist economy based on cooperative and self-managed enterprises would have stronger incentives to maximize productivity because they would receive a share of the profits (based on the overall performance of their enterprise) in addition to receiving a fixed wage or salary. 
noLabel	Tom McPhail defined "Electronic colonialism as the dependency relationship established by the importation of communication hardware, foreign-produced software, along with engineers, technicians, and related information protocols, that vicariously establish a set of foreign norms, values, and expectations which, in varying degrees, may alter the domestic cultures and socialization processes.	" Sui-Nam Lee observed that "communication imperialism can be defined as the process in which the ownership and control over the hardware and software of mass media as well as other major forms of communication in one country are singly or together subjugated to the domination of another country with deleterious effects on the indigenous values, norms and culture.
noLabel	David Mallen, the authority's chief education officer, will say that other disadvantages of the present regime include a setback to pupils' learning during the long summer break, childcare difficulties for parents and the danger of boredom or disaffection, particularly among older students.	A working party of East Sussex heads, education officers and church representatives looked at the benefits of five-term experiments at six city technology colleges - state secondary schools established with business funding by the Conservative government.
noLabel	Surveys by Gallup, the National Opinion Research Center and the Pew Organization conclude that spiritually committed people are twice as likely to report being "very happy" than the least religiously committed people .	An analysis of over 200 social studies contends that "high religiousness predicts a rather lower risk of depression and drug abuse and fewer suicide attempts, and more reports of satisfaction with sex life and a sense of well-being," and a review of 498 studies published in peer-reviewed journals concluded that a large majority of them showed a positive correlation between religious commitment and higher levels of perceived well-being and self-esteem and lower levels of hypertension, depression, and clinical delinquency .
noLabel	The WEA is a national charity and is supported by the Government through funding from the Skills Funding Agency in England, and in Scotland by the Scottish Executive and Local Authorities.	It also receives fees from learners on many of its courses and is often successful in funding bids from government, lottery and other sources for educational projects in local communities around the country. 
noLabel	On 18 July 2003, During 26–27 January 2005, about 30 human rights activists were temporarily detained by the police, allegedly for insulting Vladimir Putin, a visiting head of state.	The activists were released after about 30 hours and only one was actually charged with insulting a foreign head of state .
noLabel	He cited the lack of response he had himself encountered trying to generate interest in similar research, and warned Stalin of the consequences of the development of atomic weapons: "..the results will be so overriding [that] it won't be necessary to determine who is to blame for the fact that this work has been neglected in our country".	By September 1942, Stalin, who had already been presented with evidence of the Western nuclear programs, decided to launch a Soviet program to develop an atomic bomb headed by Igor Kurchatov. 
noLabel	Because of gun politics in Brazil, all firearms are required to be registered with the state; the minimum age for ownership is 25 and although it is legal to carry a gun outside a residence, extremely severe restrictions were made by the federal government since 2002 making it virtually impossible to obtain a carry permit .	To legally own a gun, the owner must pay a tax every three years to register the gun, currently at BRL R$85 and registration can be done via the Internet or in person with the Federal Police .
noLabel	Many foods originally came from tropical forests, and are still mostly grown on plantations in regions that were formerly primary forest .	Also, plant derived medicines are commonly used for fever, fungal infections, burns, gastrointestinal problems, pain, respiratory problems, and wound treatment .
noLabel	The governors of Arizona and Texas have asked the federal government to send additional National Guard troops to help those already there supporting local law enforcement efforts against drug trafficking .	The call for National Guard on the border greatly increased after the 2010 murder of Arizona rancher Robert Krentz, possibly at the hands of Mexican drug smugglers . 
noLabel	It has been argued that these typologies remain a fundamental heuristic tool for welfare state scholars, even for those who claim that in-depth analysis of a single case is more suited to capture the complexity of different social policy arrangements.	Welfare typologies have the function to provide a comparative lens and place even the single case into a comparative perspective (Ferragina and Seeleib-Kaiser 2011) . 
noLabel	In many of the latter cases, the victim firing in self-defense is frequently a woman or youth victim of a more physically powerful abuser.	In those situations gun rights advocates argue that the firearm arguably becomes an equalizer against the lethal and disabling force frequently exercised by the abusers . 
noLabel	An Ipos Reid poll conducted in late October 2009 found that the majority 53% of Canadians want Canada to end its constitutional ties to the monarchy after the Queen dies.	49% of Canadians want to abolish the constitutional monarchy structure now and become a republic, with an elected head of state.
noLabel	Another 2007 study showed that while 66% of individuals using anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes were willing to seek medical supervision for their steroid use, 58% lacked trust in their physicians, 92% felt that the medical community's knowledge of non-medical anabolic steroid use was lacking, and 99% felt that the public has an exaggerated view of the side effects of anabolic steroid use .	A 2006 study has showed that long-term anabolic steroid users were more likely to have symptoms of muscle dysmorphia and also showed stronger endorsement of more traditional male roles .
noLabel	Unschooling contrasts with other forms of home education in that the student's education is not directed by a teacher and curriculum.	Unschooling is a real-world implementation of "The Open Classroom" methods promoted in the late 1960's and early 1970's, without the school, classrooms or grades.
noLabel	Examples like the murder of Channon Christian and Christopher Newsom and the Wichita Massacre tend not to be classified as "hate crimes" by U.S. investigative officials, but they have meanwhile been described as "hate crimes against whites by blacks" by right-wing commentators such as David Horowitz (a right-wing author and academic) and Michelle Malkin (a commentator for the Fox News channel and a prolific conservative author).	The district attorneys in both these cases have specifically stated that while these incidents were indeed horrible, and had tremendous impacts on the communities affected by them, neither displayed evidence of being black-on-white racism, either upon initial or more in-depth review.
noLabel	The Israeli NGO Gisha Legal Center for Freedom of Movement asserted in  that Israel continues to prevent normal functioning of the Gazan economy.	The United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UNOCHA) conducted an assessment of the humanitarian impact of the easing of the blockage in January and February 2011 and concluded that they did not result in a significant improvement in people’s livelihoods . 
noLabel	If the statement can be proved true or false, then, on that basis, the case will be heard by a jury to determine whether it is true or false.	If the statement cannot be proved true or false, the court may dismiss the libel case without it ever going to a jury to find facts in the case. 
noLabel	In China a higher education institution Shang Xiang was founded by Shun in the Youyu era before the 21st century BCE.	The Imperial Central Academy at Nanjing, founded in 258, was a result of the evolution of Shang Xiang and it became the first comprehensive institution combining education and research and was divided into five faculties in 470, which later became Nanjing University. 
noLabel	But in April 1944 it was found by Emilio Segrè that the plutonium produced by the Hanford reactors had too high a level of background neutron radiation, and underwent spontaneous fission to a very small extent, due to the presence of impurities of the Pu-240 isotope.	If such plutonium were used in a "gun assembly," the chain reaction would start in the split seconds before the critical mass was assembled, blowing the weapon apart before it would have any great effect (this is known as a fizzle). 
noLabel	In February 2011 Prime Minister David Cameron stated that the "doctrine of state multiculturalism" (promoted by the previous Labour government) has failed and will be no longer be state policy .	He stated that the UK needed a stronger national identity and signalled a tougher stance on groups promoting Islamist extremism .
noLabel	While many renewable energy projects are large-scale, renewable technologies are also suited to rural and remote areas, where energy is often crucial in human development .	As of 2011, small solar PV systems provide electricity to a few million households, and micro-hydro configured into mini-grids serves many more.
noLabel	The loss of trees from the tropical rainforests alone represents a substantial diminishing of the earth’s ability to produce oxygen and use up carbon dioxide.	These services are becoming even more important as increasing carbon dioxide levels is one of the main contributors to global climate change. 
noLabel	The two substances in combination proved very popular and were also smoked in normal "dry" pipes, but the water pipe remained the most common smoking tool until the introduction of the cigarette in the 20th century.	Foreign visitors to the region often remarked that smoking was immensely popular among Persians; on Ramadan, the Muslim period of fasting when no food was to be eaten while the sun was up, among the first thing many Persians did after sunset was to light their pipes.
noLabel	An individual must file a complaint of discrimination with the EEOC within 180 days of learning of the discrimination or the individual may lose the right to file a lawsuit.	Title VII only applies to employers who employ 15 or more employees for 20 or more weeks in the current or preceding calendar year (). 
noLabel	The Southeast Asian Games, commonly known as the SEA Games, is a biennial multi-sport event involving participants from the current 11 countries of Southeast Asia.	The games is under regulation of the Southeast Asian Games Federation with supervision by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the Olympic Council of Asia.
noLabel	Although that program had general public backing, its goals could not be met while retaining the ceiling of 1% of GNP on military spending, which still had strong public support.	At first the government tried to get around the problem by deferring payment, budgeting only the initial costs of major military hardware.
noLabel	Although Ziegler prescribed only small doses to athletes, he soon discovered that those having abused Dianabol suffered from enlarged prostates and atrophied testes .	AAS were placed on the list of banned substances of the IOC in 1976, and a decade later the committee introduced 'out-of-competition' doping tests because many athletes used AAS in their training period rather than during competition . 
noLabel	In the Controlled Substances Act, anabolic steroids are defined to be any drug or hormonal substance chemically and pharmacologically related to testosterone (other than estrogens, progestins, and corticosteroids) that promote muscle growth.	The act was amended by the Anabolic Steroid Control Act of 2004, which added prohormones to the list of controlled substances, with effect from January 20, 2005 .
noLabel	Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT)—signed 1996, not yet in force: The CTBT is an international treaty (currently with 181 state signatures and 148 state ratifications) that bans all nuclear explosions in all environments.	While the treaty is not in force, Russia has not tested a nuclear weapon since 1990 and the United States has not since 1992 .
noLabel	This conflict raises the possibility that over time, public employee unions could wield an insurmountable advantage in political power when negotiating government wage and personnel policies with public administrators and elected officials, to the detriment of taxpayers and other competing groups and interests in the democratic process .	This advantage in bargaining power is magnified with respect to certain monopolistic services provided only by the government and which are critical to the welfare and safety of the public at large, such as police and fire protection . 
noLabel	|- A map of Canada's provinces and territories Canada's governmental structure was originally established by the British Parliament through the British North America Act (now known as the Constitution Act, 1867), but the federal model and division of powers were devised by Canadian politicians.	Particularly after World War I, citizens of the self-governing Dominions, such as Canada, began to develop a strong sense of identity, and, in the Balfour Declaration of 1926, the British government expressed its intent to grant full autonomy to these regions. 
noLabel	Fifth, the influence of geophysical factors (vast area, coldness, northness; St. Lawrence spine) together with the proximity of the United States have produced in the collective Canadian psyche what Northrop Frye has called the garrison mind or siege mentality, and what novelist Margaret Atwood has argued is the Canadian preoccupation with survival .	For Herschel Hardin, because of the remarkable hold of the siege mentality and the concern with survival, Canada in its essentials is "a public enterprise country."
noLabel	" Former President George W. Bush exemplified this ideology when he wrote in 2007: "..it is also a fact that our tax cuts have fueled robust economic growth and record revenues.	" However, as described above, multiple studies by economists across the political spectrum and several government organizations argue that tax cuts increase deficits and debt . 
noLabel	Because the Roma and Sinti are traditionally a secretive people with a culture based on oral history, less is known about their experience of the genocide than about that of any other group .	Yehuda Bauer writes that the lack of information can be attributed to the Roma's distrust and suspicion, and to their humiliation, because some of the basic taboos of Romani culture regarding hygiene and sexual contact were violated at Auschwitz.
noLabel	Experiments aimed at measuring fetal pain have yielded results that are somewhat open to interpretation, given that measurable reactions of the fetus to stimuli may not correspond directly to an adult experience of pain.	Many medical authorities affirm that at the stage of pregnancy when this procedure is performed, the fetus has not reached what the medical community has defined as viability, the stage at which a developing fetus can be expected to live if removed from the uterus (usually at five months gestation, with medical assistance, although the viability threshold is retreating with medical advances). 
noLabel	This civilization seems to have fallen into decline by the late Bronze Age, when, according to Herodotus, Macedonian tribes from the north marched into Peloponnese, where they were called Dorians and subjugating the local tribes, settled there .	The Dorians seem to have set about expanding the frontiers of Spartan territory almost before they had established their own state .
noLabel	This may change in the future as display advertising is becoming much more targeted to users, much like how search engine ads can be extremely relevant to users based on what they are searching for.	Display advertisers use cookie and browser history to determine demographics and interests of users and target appropriate ads to those browsers.
noLabel	In Australia the incidence of smoking is in decline, with figures from 2004-5 showing 23% of the population to be current smokers, a decline of 2% compared to 1995.	Among the indigenous population, the rate is much higher, with 51% of men and 49% of women reported being current daily smokers.
noLabel	In New South Wales groups of licensees have formed local liquor accords and collectively developed, implemented and promoted a range of harm minimisation programmes including the aforementioned 'designated driver' and 'late night patron transport' schemes.	Many of the transport schemes are free of charge to patrons, to encourage them to avoid drink-driving and at the same time reduce the impact of noisy patrons loitering around late night venues. 
noLabel	Other causes of contemporary deforestation may include corruption of government institutions, the inequitable distribution of wealth and power, population growth and overpopulation, and urbanization .	Globalization is often viewed as another root cause of deforestation, though there are cases in which the impacts of globalization (new ﬂows of labor, capital, commodities, and ideas) have promoted localized forest recovery .
noLabel	The case involved Adele Sherbert, who was denied unemployment benefits by South Carolina because she refused to work on Saturdays, something forbidden by her Seventh-day Adventist faith.	In Wisconsin v. Yoder, , the Court ruled that a law that "unduly burdens the practice of religion" without a compelling interest, even though it might be "neutral on its face," would be unconstitutional. 
noLabel	From a control theory perspective, children who are properly bonded to their parents would be involved in less crime than children who have weaker parental bonds, and assumes that the family is a naturally law-abiding institution.	Basically, the biggest weakness of the theory (and in some respects, its biggest strength) is that it places too much importance on the bonds relative to an individual and society, without looking at bigger concepts like autonomy and impulsiveness.
noLabel	The historian Detlev Peukert in his 1989 essay "The Genesis of the 'Final Solution' from the Spirit of Science" declared that the Shoah was not the result solely of anti-Semitism, but was instead a product of the "cumulative radicalization" in which "numerous smaller currents" fed into the "broad current" that led to genocide .	After the First World War, the pre-war mood of optimism gave way to disillusionment as German bureaucrats found social problems to be more insoluble than previously thought, which in turn led them to place increasing emphasis on saving the biologically "fit" while the biologically "unfit" were to be written off .
noLabel	As of 2005, hydroelectric power, mostly from dams, supplies some 19% of the world's electricity, and over 63% of renewable energy .	Much of this is generated by large dams, although China uses small scale hydro generation on a wide scale and is responsible for about 50% of world use of this type of power . 
noLabel	Rising efficiency in production techniques and communication lowered the prices of consumer goods at the same time as it increased the amount and variety of goods available to consumers (including the literature essential to the public sphere).	Meanwhile, the colonial experience (most European states had colonial Empires in the 18th century) began to expose European society to extremely heterogeneous cultures.
noLabel	Wiki sites are another tool teachers can implement into CAL curriculums for students to understand communication and collaboration efforts of group work through electronic means.	Teachers are encouraged to embed these technological devices and services in the curriculum in order to enhance students learning and meet the needs of various types of learners.
noLabel	Commentator Bill Mann has linked the Keystone postponement to the Michigan Senate's rejection of Canadian funding for the proposed Detroit River International Crossing and to other recent instances of "U.S. government actions (and inactions) that show little concern about Canadian concerns".	Mann drew attention to a Maclean's article sub-titled "we used to be friends" about U.S./Canada relations after President Obama had "insulted Canada (yet again)" over the pipeline .
noLabel	The portrayal of race in video games has also recently become an issue, seen in games such as the Grand Theft Auto series, 50 Cent: Bulletproof, and Def Jam: Fight for NY.	In 2009, the issue of race emerged with the release of Resident Evil 5, which has the player kill numerous African enemies, resulting in arguments from both sides of the issue.
noLabel	According to the National Sample Survey Data of 1997, only the states of Kerala and Mizoram have approached universal female literacy rates.	According to majority of the scholars, the major factor behind the improved social and economic status of women in Kerala is literacy . 
noLabel	In the early 1970s, a highly contentious debate over the performance of emergency core cooling systems in nuclear plants, designed to prevent a core meltdown that could lead to the "China syndrome", received coverage in the popular media and technical journals .	The emergency core cooling systems controversy opened up the question of whether the AECs first priority was promotion of the nuclear industry or protection of public health and safety .
noLabel	In March 2010, the lower house of the Mexican legislature introduced legislation to amend the Constitution to make the Mexican government formally "laico" – meaning "lay" or "secular" .	Critics of the move say the "context surrounding the amendment suggests that it might be a step backwards for religious liberty and true separation of church and state."
noLabel	In Rabbi Elyse Wechterman's essay A Plea for Inclusion, she argues that, even in the absence of circumcision, committed Jews should never be turned away, especially by a movement "where no other ritual observance is mandated".	She goes on to advocate for an alternate covenant ceremony, brit atifah, for both boys and girls as a welcoming ritual into Judaism .
noLabel	More commonly, in cases where there are three or more parties, no one party is likely to gain power alone, and parties work with each other to form coalition governments.	This has been an emerging trend in the politics of the Republic of Ireland since the 1980s and is almost always the case in Germany on national and state level, and in most constituencies at the communal level.
noLabel	Because the maximum theoretical yield-to-weight ratio is about 6 megatons of TNT per metric ton, and the maximum achieved ratio was apparently 5.2 megatons of TNT per metric ton, there is a practical limit on the total yield for air-delivered weapon.	Note that most later generation weapons have eliminated the very heavy casing once thought needed for the nuclear reactions to occur efficiently - this greatly increases the achievable yield-to-weight ratio.
noLabel	Although most moderate segregationists had joined with the extremists in initially supporting the Gray Commission plan and the call for a constitutional convention, the moderates largely did not support interposition .	The moderate segregationists also joined with many (such as leading educators, urban leaders from Northern Virginia, former state superintendent of public schools Dabney Lancaster, several General Assembly delegates, and Gray Commission vice chairman Harry B. Davis) who felt that the tuition voucher proposal would undermine public education . 
noLabel	In cases such as Abrams v. United States, 250 U.S. 616 (1919) and Gitlow v. New York, 268 U.S. 652 (1925) and others, the United States Supreme Court struggled to draw the line between politically unpopular speech and actual threats to national security.	Masses Publishing Co. v. Patten greatly influenced the Supreme Court’s eventual adoption in Brandenburg v. Ohio of the "incitement test" for advocacy of illegal activity. 
noLabel	Collective bargaining is a means by which employees, in the private and often in the public sector, can pool their individual resources and strength of numbers to negotiate directly with their employer in order to seek better pay and working conditions.	Long taken for granted as appropriate and necessary in the private sector, collective bargaining rights have been at the center of debate in regards to public employees and unions.
noLabel	On 15 December 2008 the members of ASEAN met in the Indonesian capital of Jakarta to launch a charter, signed in November 2007, with the aim of moving closer to "an EU-style community" .	The charter turns ASEAN into a legal entity and aims to create a single free-trade area for the region encompassing 500 million people.
noLabel	Before 1939, most health care had to be paid for through non government organisations &ndash; through a vast network of friendly societies, trade unions and other insurance companies which counted the vast majority of the UK working population as members.	These friendly societies provided insurance for sickness, unemployment and invalidity, therefore providing people with an income when they were unable to work.
noLabel	Twenty-four hours before a mission or battle, a small amount of red blood cells would be infused back into the soldier.	Military scientists believe that the procedure increases the soldiers' endurance and alertness because of the increase in the blood's capability to carry oxygen. 
noLabel	The German "Basic Law" requires that conscientious objection be possible, therefore draftees were allowed to perform civilian service (Zivildienst or Wehrersatzdienst).	The conscientious objection had to be declared in a personal letter to the local draft office (Kreiswehrersatzamt), with an appendix outlining one's moral objections.
noLabel	Professor Posner, as well, wrote that "longstanding customary international law permits states to enforce publicly announced blockades on the high seas" .	Professor Morgan also said that under the San Remo law, a blockade is often enforced in what would otherwise be international waters . 
noLabel	Across the spectrum, through research, proofs of concept, advocacy and outreach, the Centre has contributed to a changed climate of opinion around the country.	In 2007, it launched a "School Choice Campaign", which involves giving “education vouchers” to poor students to reimburse tuition fees .
noLabel	The Center for Immigration Studies (CIS), an organization that advocates for immigration reduction in the United States, cites a lack of enforcement or the inadequate enforcement of existing immigration and border laws by the Executive Branch of the U.S government as a primary cause of illegal immigration.	In the U.S., 11-20 million illegal immigrants have very low chances of being deported and only a very small fraction of companies that hire them are ever penalized.
noLabel	In a wind farm, individual turbines are interconnected with a medium voltage (often 34.5 kV), power collection system and communications network.	At a substation, this medium-voltage electric current is increased in voltage with a transformer for connection to the high voltage electric power transmission system. 
noLabel	The Amazon, under the impact of our will and labor, shall cease to be a simple chapter in the history of the world, and made equivalent to other great rivers, shall become a chapter in the history of human civilization.	Everything which has up to now been done in Amazonas, whether in agriculture or extractive industry.. must be transformed into rational exploitation.|Getúlio Vargas
noLabel	Chinese oil demand for instance, is projected to grow nearly 20% in the next six years, and already imports over half of the it uses .	If the peak oil theory proves out, and more explorations of viable alternative energy sources are made, our impact could be more friendly to the environment. 
noLabel	When restrictions are removed, large quantities of rosewood are dumped on the market, bringing massive profits for traders before causing a rapid fall in prices .	During the intervals between exports, the wood traders, who are also vanilla traders, use the relatively steady income from vanilla exports to fund the extraction of the illegal wood . 
noLabel	" Other analysts cited that as more game content becomes available online as opposed to retail channels, the focus may shift more towards "privacy and security" of children and preventing children from amassing large fees from pay-to-use gaming services, pointing to a $3 million settlement that Playdom had to pay for violating privacy of its younger users .	Sean Bersell of the EMA noted that future debates over violent video games may involve public opinion in addition to new legislation, noting that "Retailers along with publishers and parents all have a role in keeping kids away from these games.
noLabel	This led to much speculation among Whitlam's supporters as to whether this use of the Governor-General's reserve powers was appropriate, and whether Australia should become a republic.	Among supporters of constitutional monarchy however, the experience confirmed the value of the monarchy as a source of checks and balances against elected politicians who might seek powers in excess of those conferred by their respective constitutions, and ultimately as a safeguard against dictatorship. 
noLabel	Amongst the gravest of criticisms made by non-Catholic Christians of the Catholic Church surround those criticizing the central Catholic worship service: "The Holy Sacrifice of the Mass", also called Holy Communion.	For Catholics it is the centre and summit of Catholic worship and the greatest of the seven sacraments of the Church.
noLabel	On 15 August 2002, in his National Day Address, Prince Hans-Adam II announced that after months of intensive negotiations, a compromise in the debate on constitutional reform had been reached.	On 13 September, Prime Minister Otmar Hasler confirmed to Parliament that his government was drafting a bill for Parliament based on the compromise reached between the Prince and the Citizens' Forum.
noLabel	The inquiry was charged with investigating the legality of the Israeli blockade and the legality of the Israeli navy's actions during the raid, and determining whether investigations of claims of war crimes and breaches of international law conform to Western standards.	It was also charged with looking into the Turkish position, and the actions taken by the flotilla's organizers, especially the IHH, and examining the identities and intentions of the flotilla's participants. 
noLabel	Villagers have lived in fear of the rosewood mafia, silenced and in dire poverty, while people in the coastal city of Sambava demonstrated in strong support of the logging.	When remote villagers joined together to protest the destruction of their forests, the armed mafia dispersed them by firing shots over their heads .
noLabel	In addition, the authors of the 2007 study above state that "because of the use of the term 'nuclear autumn' by Thompson and Schneider [1986], even though the authors made clear that the climatic consequences would be large, in policy circles the theory of nuclear winter is considered by some to have been exaggerated and disproved [e.g., Martin, 1988].	" And in 2007 Schneider emphasized the danger of serious climate changes from a limited nuclear war of the kind analyzed in the 2006 study above, saying "The sun is much stronger in the tropics than it is in mid-latitudes.
noLabel	On the other hand, as Jonathan Israel writes, Gabriel Naudé was already campaigning for the "universal" library in the mid-17th century.	And if this was an ideal only realistic for state institutions and the very wealthy (and indeed, an ideal that was seldom achieved), there are records for extremely large private and state-run libraries throughout Europe in the 17th and 18th-centuries . 
noLabel	There was, however, a noticeable temporary increase in gun crime in the years immediately after the ban, though this has since fallen back.	The reason for the increase has not been investigated thoroughly but it is thought that 3 factors may have raised the number of guns in circulation.
noLabel	On April 18, 2007 the Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision, Gonzales v. Carhart, held that the statute does not violate the Constitution.	Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the majority which included Justices Samuel Alito, Clarence Thomas, Antonin Scalia, and Chief Justice John Roberts.
noLabel	In 2008 the Nea Demokratia-led government of Greece voted a law that will force all laboratories of liberal studies to register with the Greek Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs as colleges (κολλέγια, kollegia) by August 2009.	It is expected that this will help to widen the participation of Greek students in private colleges, thus allowing the expertise and efficiency of the private educational sector to benefit the Greek students and society.
noLabel	A Norwegian man made a threat against the lives of the people at the magazine, but later claimed, when faced by the police, that it was just a prank.	The Norwegian Foreign Ministry sent a letter to their ambassadors in the Middle East stating that one of the pillars of the Norwegian society is freedom of speech, but they expressed regret that Magazinet did not respect Muslims' beliefs . 
noLabel	In fact, students with a high socioeconomic status are 1.55 times more likely to persist in college than students with a low socioeconomic status.	A 2007 study found that only 52 percent of low-income students who qualified for college enrolled within 2 years of graduation compared to 83 percent of high-income students .
noLabel	Gluck emphasizes that although the students believe that God created the world in six literal days and have studied evolution in school, the majority will not believe in it when they leave the school.	Gluck contrasts the tradition of Judaism with scientists who "have their tradition" and contends that it's called the "theory of evolution" rather than the "law of evolution" .
noLabel	Warren concedes that infants are not "persons" by her proposed criteria, and on that basis she and others concede that infanticide could be morally acceptable under some circumstances (for example if the infant is severely disabled or in order to save the lives of several other infants).	Critics may see such concessions as an indication that the right to life cannot be adequately defined by reference to developed psychological features. 
noLabel	Holt asserted that children learn through the experiences of life, and he encouraged parents to live their lives with their child.	Also known as interest-led or child-led learning, unschooling attempts to follow opportunities as they arise in real life, through which a child will learn without coercion.
noLabel	Croatian Penal code explicitly defines hate crime in article 89 as "any crime committed out of hatred for someones race, skin color, sex, sexual orientation, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social background, asset, birth, education, social condition, age, health condition or other attribute" .	On 1 January 2013 new Penal code will be introduced with the recognition of a hate crime based on a "race, skin color, religion, national or ethnic background, sexual orientation or gender identity" .
noLabel	Protectionists believe that allowing foreign goods to enter domestic markets without being subject to tariffs or other forms of taxation, leads to a situation where domestic goods are at a disadvantage, a kind of reverse protectionism.	By ruling out revenue tariffs on foreign products, governments must rely solely on domestic taxation to provide its revenue, which falls disproportionately on domestic manufacturing.
noLabel	The final decision on firing the missiles is the responsibility of the British Prime Minister, and each holder of this office is required to write personal letters of last resort to the commanders of the four Trident missile-carrying submarines.	A letter to the commanding officer is locked in the captain's safe of each vessel and, in the event of the submarines irrevocably losing contact with the base due to nuclear war, the decision to fire is handed over to the commander of the submarine . 
noLabel	This argument is circumvented, however, when one argues that God's omnibenevolence is a result of God in his free will, always choosing to do what is good.	Another refutation used to this argument is that because God is the standard by all that which is good, no matter what he does would be considered good for the simple fact that it is he who does it.
noLabel	These may also be defined by age (typically youth) or peer group influences, and the permanence or consistency of their criminal activity.	These groups also form their own symbolic identity or public representation which are recognisable by the community at large (include colours, symbols, patches, flags and tattoos). 
noLabel	(2) Education shall be directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.	It shall promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations, racial or religious groups, and shall further the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace. 
noLabel	The riots in Los Angeles, California that followed the beating of Rodney King, a Black motorist, by a group of White police officers are cited as support for this argument .	The beating of white truck driver Reginald Denny by black rioters during the same riot is also an example that would support this argument. 
noLabel	Gun control advocates also favor CAP laws as a means of preventing gun suicides, but conservatives argue that gun suicides are commonly committed in the victim's home, where the victim is also the gun owner and therefore has access to the key or combination if the gun is locked.	Like suicides, a large share of fatal gun accidents occur in the victim's home, with adults and adolescents accidentally shooting themselves.
noLabel	The parties agree that this per-cigarette amount is roughly equivalent to the per-cigarette amount the MSA requires from OPMs and SPMs for sales which are not exempt.	To the extent it differs, the OPMs pay slightly more than the SPMs, which pay slightly more than the NPMs . 
noLabel	After the national championship was set, the Orange Bowl had the next pick, and invited #3 (#5 BCS) Iowa, who had shared the Big Ten title with Ohio State.	When it was the Rose Bowl's turn to select, the best available team was #8 (#7 BCS) Oklahoma, the Big 12 champion.
noLabel	Now (2009) although a protection of the national minorities has not become a generally accepted legally binding principle of the EU, in several legal acts issues of national minorities are mentioned.	In external relations protection of national minorities became one of the main criteria for cooperation with the EU or accession .
noLabel	In October 2002, the United States accused North Korea of violating the Agreed Framework by pursuing a secret uranium enrichment program, and suspended shipments of heavy fuel oil under that agreement.	In response, North Korea expelled IAEA inspectors, disabled IAEA equipment, and, on January 10, 2003, announced that it was ending the suspension of its previous NPT withdrawal notification.
noLabel	In the UK, terms such as specific learning difficulty (SpLD), Developmental Dyslexia, dyspraxia and dyscalculia are used to cover the range of learning difficulties referred to in the United States as "learning disabilities".	In the UK, the term "learning disability" refers to a range of developmental disabilities or conditions that are almost invariably associated with more severe generalized cognitive impairment.
noLabel	Later, during The Glorious Revolution of 1688 caused partially by disillusionment with the absolutist rule of the Scottish James II of England (VII of Scotland), Parliament and others  argued that James had broken "the original contract" with the state.	Far from pressing for a republic, which had been experienced within living memory, they instead argued that the best form of government was a constitutional monarchy with explicitly circumscribed powers.
noLabel	The term is generally used as a pejorative or in the context of civil society activism and governments will typically deny the existence of a second class within the polity.	As an informal term, second-class citizenship is not objectively measured; however, cases such as the American South under segregation, apartheid in South Africa, Roman Catholics in Northern Ireland during the parliamentary era and the marginalization of other religious and ethnic minorities, women, men, non-custodial parents, low to mid income parents who cannot afford a lawyer and have their children taken away by Child Protective Services, LGBT people, and other minorities in many countries worldwide, have been historically described as creating second-class citizenry. 
noLabel	Doctrines of hell, particularly those involving eternal suffering, pose a particularly strong form of the problem of evil (see problem of hell).	If unbelief, incorrect beliefs, or poor design are considered evils, then the argument from nonbelief, the argument from inconsistent revelations, and the argument from poor design may be seen as particular instances of the argument from evil.
noLabel	In the 1980s, a popular movement for nuclear disarmament again gained strength in the light of the weapons build-up and aggressive rhetoric of US President Ronald Reagan.	Reagan had "a world free of nuclear weapons" as his personal mission, and was largely scorned for this in Europe .
noLabel	Neither the intent, as a matter of policy, to render an area “ethnically homogeneous”, nor the operations that may be carried out to implement such policy, can as such be designated as genocide: the intent that characterizes genocide is “to destroy, in whole or in part” a particular group, and deportation or displacement of the members of a group, even if effected by force, is not necessarily equivalent to destruction of that group, nor is such destruction an automatic consequence of the displacement.	This is not to say that acts described as 'ethnic cleansing' may never constitute genocide, if they are such as to be characterized as, for example, 'deliberately inflicting on the group conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical destruction in whole or in part', contrary to Article II, paragraph (c), of the Convention, provided such action is carried out with the necessary specific intent (dolus specialis), that is to say with a view to the destruction of the group, as distinct from its removal from the region.
noLabel	Much of the disagreement about "proofs" of God's existence is due to different conceptions not only of the term "God" but also the terms "proof", "truth", and "knowledge".	Religious belief from revelation or enlightenment (satori) can fall into either the first category, a posteriori knowledge, if rooted in deduction or personal revelation, or the second, a priori class of knowledge, if based on introspection. 
noLabel	In November 2009, The Economist estimated the additional federal tax revenue generated from eliminating certain tax expenditures, for the 2013-2014 period.	These included: income exemptions for employer-provided health insurance ($215 billion); and various income deductions such as mortgage interest ($147B), state & local taxes ($65B), capital gains on homes ($60B), property taxes ($33B) and municipal bond interest ($37B).
noLabel	Unauthorized immigrants are especially popular with many employers because they can pay less than the legal minimum wage or have unsafe working conditions, secure in the knowledge that few unauthorized workers will report the abuse to the authorities.	Often the minimum wages in one country can be several times the prevailing wage in the unauthorized immigrant's country, making even these jobs attractive to the unauthorized worker. 
noLabel	Bjørn Lomborg's Copenhagen Consensus on international development challenges ranked trade liberalization as third on the list of development priorities; the experts judged that modest costs could have large benefits for developing nations.	(They ranked free trade as a "Very Good" opportunity fighting misery along with cheap measures against HIV infection, micronutrient distribution, and anti-malarial programs.)
noLabel	A Sudbury school is a school that practices a form of democratic education in which students individually decide what to do with their time, and learn as a by-product of ordinary experience rather than adopting a descriptive educational syllabus or standardized instruction by classes following a prescriptive curriculum.	Students have complete responsibility for their own education and the school is run by direct democracy in which students and staff are equals . 
noLabel	Groups such as Amnesty International and War Resisters International have advocated for "The Right to Refuse to Kill" to be added to the UDHR.	War Resisters International has stated that the right to conscientious objection to military service is primarily derived from, but not yet explicit in, Article 18 of the UDHR: the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion . 
noLabel	In the last decade, Kenya has seen a huge influx of illegal firearms – mainly pistols and AK47 assault rifles – from the neighbouring war-torn nations in the Horn of Africa, notably Somalia and Ethiopia and Eritrea as well as from the conflict in Sudan and Northern Uganda.	Some small arms from the conflict in the Great Lakes region have also found their way illegally into the major Kenyan cities.
noLabel	Nuclear plants have an additional disadvantage; for safety, they must instantly shut down in a power failure, but for nuclear-physics reasons, they can’t be restarted quickly.	For example, during the Northeast Blackout of 2003, nine operating U.S. nuclear units had to shut down and were later restarted.
noLabel	A 2005 study estimated that over 90 million females were "missing" from the expected population in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, India, Pakistan, South Korea and Taiwan alone, and suggested that sex-selective abortion plays a role in this deficit .	India's 2011 census shows a serious decline in the number of girls under the age of seven - activists believe eight million female fetuses may have been aborted between 2001 and 2011 . 
noLabel	Another 2007 study had similar findings, showing that, while 66% of individuals using anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes were willing to seek medical supervision for their steroid use, 58% lacked trust in their physicians, 92% felt that the medical community's knowledge of non-medical anabolic steroid use was lacking, and 99% felt that the public has an exaggerated view of the side-effects of anabolic steroid use .	A recent study has also shown that long term AAS users were more likely to have symptoms of muscle dysmorphia and also showed stronger endorsement of more conventional male roles . 
noLabel	Wada is working with pharmaceutical giants such as GSK to develop tests for new substances that have genuine medical uses but could also enhance performances.Wada is also calling for more help from governments around the world, not only to maintain their funding but to criminalise the supply of performance-enhancing drugs.According to those on the frontline, the focus is becoming as much on education of young athletes ΓÇô trying to convince them that the risks vastly outweigh the rewards ΓÇô and on intelligence-led initiatives.	Working with Interpol and local law enforcement agencies, Wada hopes to target the networks behind the supply of illicit substances and the pyramid of influences behind the athletes in the hope of cutting the supply and reducing their power.It's a good question.
noLabel	Between 1950 and 1984, the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, with world grain production increasing by 250% as world population doubled.	Modern agriculture's heavy reliance on petrochemicals and mechanization has raised concerns that oil shortages could increase costs and reduce agricultural output, causing food shortages. 
noLabel	Although the 1982 constitution guarantees freedom of speech, the Chinese government often uses the subversion of state power and the protection of state secret clause to imprison those who are critical of the government .	The government is also heavily involved in censoring news through the Propaganda Department of the Communist Party of China, even though no state law explicitly gives it such authority. 
noLabel	There is no clear and explicit provision that prohibits refoulement (that prohibits Russia from returning individuals to their home country where their lives or freedoms could be threatened).	Opponents contend that with no guarantee that asylum seekers will not be forcibly returned to the country they fled, the Law fails its central purpose and is inconsistent with a norm in international law . 
noLabel	In 1470, when the Lancastrians briefly restored Henry VI to the throne, queen Elizabeth was living in London with several young daughters.	She moved with them into Westminster for sanctuary, living there in royal comfort until Edward IV was restored to the throne in 1471 and giving birth to their first son Edward V during that time.
noLabel	If the scheme is approved by councillors tomorrow, the county would consult parents, staff, governors, trade unions and employers before taking a final decision in June.	David Hart, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, said there were good arguments for a five-term year, but dangers for a local authority in going it alone.
noLabel	The cartoons were first published in Aftenposten and Dagbladet, but when they were published in the Christian publication Magazinet, and later again in many major Norwegian newspapers, violent reactions and hostile attitude against Norway started.	Freedom of Speech was heavily debated, and there has been great concern about the violent reactions and hostile attitude against Norway.
noLabel	The legality of abortion in the United States is frequently a major issue in nomination battles for the U.S. Supreme Court.	However, nominees typically remain silent on the issue during their hearings, because it is an issue that may come before them as judges. 
noLabel	The combination of the unexpectedly large blast and poor weather conditions caused a cloud of radioactive nuclear fallout to contaminate over , including Marshall Island natives and the crew of a Japanese fishing boat, as a snow-like mist.	The contaminated islands were evacuated (and are still uninhabitable), but the natives received enough of a radioactive dose that they suffered far elevated levels of cancer and birth defects in the years to come. 
noLabel	A report in the Sydney Morning Herald and Searchina, a Japanese newspaper, report that two Myanmarese defectors saying that the Myanmar junta was secretly building a nuclear reactor and plutonium extraction facility with North Korea's help, with the aim of acquiring its first nuclear bomb in five years.	According to the report, "The secret complex, much of it in caves tunnelled into a mountain at Naung Laing in northern Burma, runs parallel to a civilian reactor being built at another site by Russia that both the Russians and Burmese say will be put under international safeguards.
noLabel	Meanwhile, the royal court at Versailles was seen as being isolated from, and indifferent to, the hardships of the lower classes.	While in theory King Louis XVI was an absolute monarch, in practice he was often indecisive and known to back down when faced with strong opposition.
noLabel	Remarkably, the trends in human sex ratio are not consistent across countries at a given time, or over time for a given country.	In economically developed countries, as well as developing countries, these scientific studies have found that the human sex ratio at birth has historically varied between 0.94 to 1.15 for natural reasons. 
noLabel	He has reaffirmed the "importance of prayer in the face of the activism and the growing secularism of many Christians engaged in charitable work.	" Pope Benedict has also revived a number of traditions including elevating the Tridentine Mass to a more prominent position .
noLabel	In 2008 the International Organisation for Standardisation published Microsoft's Office Open XML as an international standard, which crucially meant that it - and therefore Microsoft Office - could be used in projects where the use of open standards were mandated by law or by policy.	Critics of the standardisation process - including some members of ISO national committees involved in the process itself - alleged irregularities and procedural violations in the process, and argued that the ISO should not have approved OOXML as a standard because it made reference to undocumented Microsoft Office behaviour. 
noLabel	Critics of U.S. agricultural policy claim that it may be in violation of World Trade Organization agreements, asserting that domestic subsidies may be considered to be a non-tariff trade barrier.	Others, including the Cato Institute's Center for Trade Policy Studies, the Union of Concerned Scientists, the Iowa Corn Growers Association, and Oxfam America, argue that subsidizing domestic grains leads to overproduction that is harmful both for farmers and for the general public.
noLabel	The word is sometimes translated as 'cattle' rather than 'flock' or 'subjects' to emphasize the inferior status of the rayah .	In the Ottoman Empire, in accordance with the Muslim dhimmi system, Christians were guaranteed limited freedoms (such as the right to worship), but were treated as second-class citizens.
noLabel	For example, in the six-month period following the March 30, 1981, attempt on the life of President Reagan, the average number of threats against protectees of the Secret Service increased by over 150&nbsp;percent from a similar period during the prior year."	For this reason, the agency recommends considering the use of sealed affidavits to keep news of threats from leaking to the press .
noLabel	""If you look at the length of the school day in England, the length of the summer holiday ΓÇª then we are fighting or actually running in this global race in a way that ensures that we start with a significant handicap.	"Commenting on the speech, a Whitehall source said: "We can either start working as hard as the Chinese, or we'll all soon be working for the Chinese.
noLabel	Delegate James McIlhany Thomson, an ardent segregationist, said he believed the Stanley plan would not pass without a pupil assignment program .	But on August 24, Garland Gray (whose own position had moved rightward) abandoned support for the pupil assignment plan because it permitted limited integration .
noLabel	The results of these surveys will help donors make more informed decisions about where they should focus their aid, and to improve aid predictability at the country level.	New analyses of historical information are also showing where there is donor fragmentation within a country, prompting donors to seek a better division of labour amongst themselves. 
noLabel	In some parliamentary systems, the head of state retains certain powers in relation to bills to be exercised at his or her discretion.	They may have authority to veto a bill until the houses of the legislature have reconsidered it, and approved it a second time; reserve a bill to be signed later, or suspend it indefinitely (generally in states with the Royal Prerogative; this power is rarely used); refer a bill to the courts to test its constitutionality; refer a bill to the people in a referendum. 
noLabel	In 1929, Fritz Lickint of Dresden, Germany, published a formal statistical evidence of a lung cancer–tobacco link, based on a study showing that lung cancer sufferers were likely to be smokers .	Lickint also argued that tobacco use was the best way to explain the fact that lung cancer struck men four or five times more often than women (since women smoked much less) . 
noLabel	The three primary signs of a woman's fertility are her basal body temperature, her cervical mucus, and her cervical position .	Computerized fertility monitors may track basal body temperatures, hormonal levels in urine, changes in electrical resistance of a woman's saliva or a mixture of these symptoms . 
noLabel	Another example is the voting age which prior to the 1970s was 21 while the age of majority was 18 in most states.	In the Republic of Ireland the age of majority is 18, but one must be over 21 years of age to stand for election to the Houses of the Oireachtas .
noLabel	Some environmentalists criticise the anti-nuclear movement for under-stating the environmental costs of fossil fuels and non-nuclear alternatives, and overstating the environmental costs of nuclear energy .	Of the numerous nuclear experts who have offered their expertise in addressing controversies, Bernard Cohen, Professor Emeritus of Physics at the University of Pittsburgh, is likely the most frequently cited.
noLabel	The 14 academics named as partners will do some teaching, though most hold full-time jobs elsewhere, several in the United States.	The NCH website refers to them as its professoriate, which led to criticism that it will be a largely absent one .
noLabel	Around Makira, lemurs have been tracked using trained dogs, killed, smoked on-site, and sold to up-scale restaurants around the region .	In August 2009, photos of piles of dead lemurs that had been confiscated from traders and restaurants in Northern Madagascar were published by Conservation International . 
noLabel	Youth may be directly controlled through constraints imposed by parents, limiting the opportunity for delinquency, as well as through parental rewards and punishments.	However, they may be constrained when free from direct control by their anticipation of parental disapproval (indirect control), or through the development of a conscience, an internal constraint on behavior.
noLabel	It extended this approach to foreign policy, using the threat to withdraw foreign aid to press NGO's into ending condom education and distribution in third-world countries.	There is ongoing debate between those advocating comprehensive, medically accurate sex education and those who regard only abstinence-based education as accord "the values held by most Americans" .
noLabel	The new association instituted a cross-licensing agreement among all US auto manufacturers: although each company would develop technology and file patents, these patents were shared openly and without the exchange of money between all the manufacturers .	By the time the US entered World War 2, 92 Ford patents and 515 patents from other companies were being shared between these manufacturers, without any exchange of money (or lawsuits) . 
noLabel	In a 2004 report by the US Department of Justice, researchers interviewed people who had been arrested in Las Vegas and Des Moines and found that the percentage of problem or pathological gamblers among the arrestees was three to five times higher than in the general population .	According to some police reports, incidences of reported crime often double and triple in communities within three years of a casino opening .
noLabel	A large resident population provides opportunities for social interaction as well as a feeling of safety in numbers and 'eyes on the street' .	It is also arguably a more sustainable urban settlement type than urban sprawl because it is less dependent on the car, requiring less (and cheaper per capita) infrastructure provision (Williams 2000, cited in Dempsey 2010) .
noLabel	When PAP President Abbas visited New Delhi in 2008 he was offered a credit of US$ 20 million (Rs.900 million) by Indian Federal Government.	India also continued to offer eight scholarships under ICCR Schemes to Palestinian students for higher studies in India, while also offering several slots for training courses under the ITEC Program.
noLabel	In some form or another, diversity and multiculturalism are integrated or embedded in the framework of many, if not all, college campuses.	Multicultural Affairs in some campus environments is a division of Student Affairs, but in others it functions under the Admission Department.
noLabel	In the earliest consoles, the computer code for one or more games was hardcoded into microchips using discrete logic, and no additional games could ever be added.	By the mid-1970s video games were found on cartridges, starting in 1976 with the release of the Fairchild Video Entertainment System (VES).
noLabel	Two former Dynamo Berlin club doctors, Dieter Binus, chief of the national women's team from 1976 to 80, and Bernd Pansold, in charge of the sports medicine centre in East-Berlin, were committed for trial for allegedly supplying 19 teenagers with illegal substances .	Binus was sentenced in August, Pansold in December 1998 after both being found guilty of administering hormones to underage female athletes from 1975 to 1984 . 
noLabel	UNESCO, who initially had granted patronage to the first International Online Free Expression Day to be held on March 12, 2008, withdrew its patronage on the day of the event giving as reasons that RWB "published material concerning a number of UNESCO's Member States, which UNESCO had not been informed of and could not endorse" and that "UNESCO's logo was placed in such a way as to indicate the Organization's support of the information presented."	RWB responded in a press release that “UNESCO has withdrawn its support to the promotion of this campaign because several of the Nations which are part of the list of Internet Enemies published by the nongovernmental organization have directly put pressure to achieve it.” .
noLabel	A constitution review process was commenced, and in the subsequent years, NLD members were involved in both negotiations with and protests against the ruling junta, as a result of which many NLD members faced imprisonment and house arrest.	Aung San Suu Kyi was placed under house arrest again for 20 months, released in 2002, imprisoned in 2003, and then transferred to house arrest.
noLabel	In effect, the laws enacted in 1993 were meant to offer protection first to former Soviet citizens, and second to citizens of all other countries.	In fact, the dominant interpretation of the 1993 Law on Refugees was that refugee status was to be granted only to asylum seekers from the “near abroad”, referring to FSU republics .
noLabel	Since 1988, the Chinese government began direct village elections to help maintain social and political order whilst facing rapid economic change.	Elections now occur in "about 650,000 villages across China, reaching 75% of the nation's 1.3&nbsp;billion people," according to the Carter Center .
noLabel	In the past, the notwithstanding clause was invoked routinely by the province of Quebec (which did not support the enactment of the Charter but is subject to it nonetheless).	The provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta have also invoked the notwithstanding clause, to end a strike and to protect an exclusively heterosexual definition of marriage, respectively.
noLabel	A series of Pharaohs ruled Ancient Egypt over the course of three millennia (circa 3150 BC to 31 BC) until it was conquered by the Roman Empire.	In the same time period several kingdoms flourished in the nearby Nubia region, with at least one of them, that of the so-called A-Group culture, apparently influencing the customs of Egypt itself. 
noLabel	The first significant console MMORPGs were Phantasy Star Online on the Sega Dreamcast (which had a built in modem and after market Ethernet adapter), followed by Final Fantasy XI for the Sony PlayStation 2 (an aftermarket Ethernet adapter was shipped to support this game).	Every major platform released since the Dreamcast has either been bundled with the ability to support an Internet connection or has had the option available as an aftermarket add-on.
noLabel	The latter went under names like "tea", "muggles" and "reefer" in the jazz community and was so influential in the 1920s and 30s that it found its way into songs composed at the time such as Louis Armstrong's Muggles Larry Adler's Smoking Reefers and Don Redman's Chant of The Weed.	The popularity of marijuana among jazz musicians remained high until the 1940s and 50s, when it was partially replaced by the use of heroin . 
noLabel	What do they learn about the pressures exerted by the sports industry as a whole - about how a big football club reacts to possible cheating, about the role of sports coaches and about how new drugs such as THG are being developed to beat the testers?	Sporting heroes There's a distinction to be drawn, of course, between the excesses of recreational drug use, which is most likely to affect the footballer's world, and performance-enhancing drugs, which have affected sports such as athletics, swimming and cycling for many years.
noLabel	E-commerce was supposed to level the playing ground between small and large businesses, but the growth of online organized crime is leading to the opposite effect; large businesses are able to afford more bandwidth (to resist denial-of-service attacks) and superior security.	Furthermore, organized crime using the Internet is much harder to trace down for the police (even though they increasingly deploy cybercops) since most police forces and law enforcement agencies operate within a local or national jurisdiction while the Internet makes it easier for criminal organizations to operate across such boundaries without detection. 
noLabel	Video games are typically more interactive than other forms of digital media, with players themselves controlling their characters and their decisions in games.	Due to the interactive nature of the medium, some people are concerned that violent content within video games has greater potential for negative effects on the player than exposure to violent content in static media such as film.
noLabel	Also, patients with global ischemia do not have any of these characteristics nor any brain activity, but to kill them would be considered wrong and legally considered murder.	Finally, there are some post-natal humans who are unable to feel pain due to genetic disorders and thus do not satisfy all of Warren's criteria. 
noLabel	Munger is against the death penalty and believes children of illegal immigrants should be allowed into University of North Carolina System schools and community colleges .	He believes that the government should do what it can to prevent illegal immigrants from entering the country, but once they are here, they should be treated fairly and given access to education or an "apartheid" will result "with fertile pickings for gang recruitment and exploitation by unscrupulous employers.
noLabel	|- Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying "The people and Government of Eritrea express deep and unreserved sympathy to the innocent and defenseless Palestinian people in Gaza who are currently being subjected to unacceptable atrocities.	Underlining that the Bush Administration holds primary responsibility for this act, the people and Government of Eritrea hope that the incoming Barack Obama Administration would assume its historic responsibility.
noLabel	One of the alternatives that Mr Kerlikowske has showcased is Sweden's Drug Control Policies that combine balanced public health approach and opposition to drug legalization.	The prevalence rates for cocaine use in Sweden are barely one-fifth of European neighbors such as the United Kingdom and Spain . 
noLabel	Despite these endorsements, a recent report by the AFT, has shown charter schools not faring as well as public schools on state administered standardized testing, though the report has been heavily criticized by conservatives like William G. Howell of the Brookings Institute .	Other charter school opponents have examined the competing claims and suggest that most students in charter schools perform the same or worse than their traditional public school counterparts on standardized tests . 
noLabel	Palin has since been critical of Obama's handling of the United States' military role in the 2011 military intervention in Libya.	On April 16, 2011, she said Obama "willfully ignored the will of the American people.. when you got us into a third war for fuzzy and inconsistent reasons, a third war that we cannot afford.
noLabel	In the 13th Century, authors began to write of a mythical female pope - Pope Joan - who managed to disguise her gender until giving birth during a procession in Rome .	Blainey cites the ever growing veneration of the Virgin Mary and Mary Magdalene as evidence of a high standing for female Christians at that time.
noLabel	Induction generators, often used for wind power, require reactive power for excitation so substations used in wind-power collection systems include substantial capacitor banks for power factor correction.	Different types of wind turbine generators behave differently during transmission grid disturbances, so extensive modelling of the dynamic electromechanical characteristics of a new wind farm is required by transmission system operators to ensure predictable stable behaviour during system faults (see: Low voltage ride through).
noLabel	 Grenade launchers are known to have been used against Mexican security forces, and M4 Carbines with M203 grenade launchers have been confiscated .	It is believed that some of these high powered weapons and related accessories may have been stolen from U.S. military bases .
noLabel	For this reason, ferreting out the bad faith SLAPP claim at an early stage of litigation should be accomplished with relative ease.	Extension of the SLAPP penalties to factually complex cases, where the substantive standard of proof at common law is lower presents special challenges. 
noLabel	Holyoake held that secularism and secular ethics should take no interest at all in religious questions (as they were irrelevant), and was thus to be distinguished from strong freethought and atheism.	In this he disagreed with Charles Bradlaugh, and the disagreement split the secularist movement between those who argued that anti-religious movements and activism was not necessary or desirable and those who argued that it was. 
noLabel	In the 2000s (decade), however, following public relations activities by the nuclear industry, advances in nuclear reactor designs, and concerns about climate change, nuclear power issues came back into energy policy discussions in some countries.	The 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents subsequently undermined the nuclear power industry's proposed renaissance and revived anti-nuclear passions worldwide, putting governments on the defensive .
noLabel	In 2007, President George W. Bush called for Congress to endorse his guest worker proposal, stating that illegal immigrants took jobs that Americans would not take .	The Pew Hispanic Center notes that while the number of legal immigrants (including LPRs, refugees, and asylum seekers) arriving has not varied substantially since the 1980s, the number of illegal immigrants has increased dramatically and, since the mid 1990s, has surpassed the number of legal immigrants .
noLabel	The typical employee at fast food chains is the adolescent, the typical wage is at or just above minimum wage, the work is typically hard and quite dangerous, and the typical benefits package is nonexistent.	Furthermore, the building of centralized shopping centers is not done with community solidarity in mind, but is merely the result of profit considerations.
noLabel	On October 1, 2007, news agencies reported that Syria reimposed restrictions on Iraqi refugees, as stated by a spokesperson for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.	Under Syria's new rules, only Iraqi merchants, businessmen and university professors with visas acquired from Syrian embassies may enter Syria .
noLabel	In offering general freedom of conscience to individuals, the edict offered many specific concessions to the Protestants, such as amnesty and the reinstatement of their civil rights, including the right to work in any field or for the State, and to bring grievances directly to the king.	The edict marked the end of the religious wars in France that tore apart the population during the second half of the 16th century. 
noLabel	The relationship between race and crime in the United States has been a topic of public controversy and scholarly debate for more than a century .	Since the 1980s, the debate has centered around the causes of and contributing factors to the disproportional representation of racial minorities (particularly African Americans, hence "Black crime") at all stages of the criminal justice system, including arrests, prosecutions and incarcerations . 
noLabel	The Haredim's lack of mainstream education, and consequent low participation in the workforce, are regarded by many in Israel as a social problem.	The Council for Higher Education announced in 2012 that it was investing NIS 180 million over the following five years to establish appropriate frameworks for the education of Haredim, focusing on specific professions .
noLabel	International non-governmental human rights organizations such as Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, International Service for Human Rights and FIDH monitor what they see as human rights issues around the world and promote their views on the subject.	Human rights organizations have been said to ""translate complex international issues into activities to be undertaken by concerned citizens in their own community" .
noLabel	It is almost impossible for a child to pull him or herself out of the cycle due to age, lack of experience, lack of a job, etc.	Because children are at such a young and impressionable age, the scars they gain from experiencing poverty early in life inevitably carry on into their adult life.
noLabel	With the release of the Mitchell Report on December 13, 2007, 86 players were revealed to have taken steroids while playing in the Major Leagues.	The report stated: "Players who use Human Growth Hormone apparently believe that it assists their ability to recover from injuries and fatigue" .
noLabel	The mixture of radioisotopes present in used power reactor fuel can be more complex because neutron activation of fission products is possible, a good example of this is the caesium isotopic signature.	In terms of activity (becquerels or curies), the activity in a power reactor fuel one hour after shutdown tends to be more long lived because the majority of the short lived fission products will have had time to decay. 
noLabel	The university may open more of the campus as public forums for its students, but it cannot designate fewer areas.. Not all places within the boundaries of the campus are public forums, according to Cummings' opinion.	The court declared the university's policy unconstitutional to the extent that it regulates the content of student speech in areas of the campus that are public forums" . 
noLabel	Hundreds of thousands of Poles, Ukrainians (Operation Vistula), Lithuanians, Latvians, Estonians and some Belarusians were expelled eastwards from Europe to the Soviet Union.	Finally, many of the several hundred thousand Jews remaining in Eastern Europe after the Holocaust migrated outside Europe to Israel and the United States.
noLabel	Since 1995, monitoring in the oil sands region shows improved or no change in long term air quality for the five key air quality pollutants — carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, fine particulate matter (PM2.5) and sulfur dioxide — used to calculate the Air Quality Index .	Air monitoring has shown significant increases in exceedances of hydrogen sulfide () both in the Fort McMurray area and near the oil sands upgraders . 
noLabel	" On July 29, 2007, McCain voted against increasing federal student loans and Pell grants and expanding eligibility for financial aid .	During an October 2004 debate, Obama stated that he opposed education vouchers for use at private schools because he believes they would undermine public schools .
noLabel	While Haystack unfortunately did not work[7] it did provide impetus to the idea that the response from the international community to human rights violations could in part be technological.	Countries such as the United States and United Kingdom are increasingly using their aid budgets to help freedom of expression on the internet.
noLabel	"While this test flight was important, the program to demonstrate commercial cargo and crew transport capabilities, which I support, was intended to enhance not replace NASA's own proven abilities to deliver critical cargo and humans to low Earth orbit.	Make no mistake, even this modest success is more than a year behind schedule, and the project deadlines of other private space companies continue to slip as well.
noLabel	Even legal attempts to sway the IOC to accept a city's bid can spark controversy, such as Beijing's successful bid to host the 2008 Summer Olympics.	Several human rights organizations spoke out against the poor human rights condition of China, in conflict with the Olympic Charter of the IOC . 
noLabel	These recurring principles of behavior include balancing of power (the theory was revised by Stephan Walt, modifying the "balance of power" concept to "balance of threat"), entering into individually sub-optimal arms races, and exercising restraint in proportion to relative power.	In Theory of International Politics (1979:6) Waltz suggests that explanation rather than prediction is expected from a good social science theory, since social scientists cannot run controlled experiments that give the natural sciences so much predictive power.
noLabel	Finally there are some courses, within two systems of grading, in which you can only get G (pass) or U (fail).	For instance, for a one semester thesis (specialized level) in Computer Science for a Master's degree at some institutions one can only get the grade G (pass) or fail, while for an equivalent thesis at other institutions one can also receive the grade VG.
noLabel	In addition to ordinary banking, however, money and other forms of value can be transferred through the use of so-called 'remittance services' which have operated for hundreds of years in non-Western societies.	Originating in southeast Asia and India, users of these systems transfer funds through the use of agents who enter into agreements with each other to receive money from people in one country (such as overseas workers) and to pay money to specified relatives or friends in other countries without having to rely on conventional banking arrangements.
noLabel	The argument from free will contests the existence of an omniscient god who has free will—or has allotted the same freedom to his creations—by arguing that the two properties are contradictory.	According to the argument, if God already knows the future, then humanity is destined to corroborate with his knowledge of the future and not have true free will to deviate from it.
noLabel	– On June 22, 1942, President Roosevelt approved the Federal Flag Code, providing for uniform guidelines for the display and respect shown to the flag.	The Flag Code does not prescribe any penalties for non-compliance nor does it include any enforcement provisions, rather it functions simply as a guide for voluntary civilian compliance. 
noLabel	From 1999 through 2006, ABC broadcast eight BCS National Championship Games pursuant to broadcasting rights negotiated with the BCS and the Rose Bowl, whose rights were offered separately.	Beginning with the 2006–07 season, FOX obtained the BCS package, consisting of the Orange Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, Sugar Bowl, and the BCS National Championship Games hosted by these bowls, with ABC retaining the rights to the Rose Bowl and BCS National Championship Games hosted by the Rose Bowl (such as the 2010 edition) . 
noLabel	The teenage birth rate in the United States is the highest in the developed world, and the teenage abortion rate is also high .	The U.S. teenage pregnancy rate was at a high in the 1950s and has decreased since then, although there has been an increase in births out of wedlock .
noLabel	A flood of inexpensive consumer goods from China has recently encountered criticism from Europe, the United States and some African countries .	As of April 26, 2005 Asia Times article notes that, "In regional giant South Africa, some 300,000 textile workers have lost their jobs in the past two years due to the influx of Chinese goods" .
noLabel	On January 31, 1997, Hawaii sued the major domestic tobacco companies, seeking damages for costs related to tobacco-related injuries suffered by its MEDICAID recipients.	Hawaii's lawsuit was based upon a variety of theories including false advertising, fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation, civil conspiracy, negligence, products liability, and restitution for health care costs for recipients of public assistance. 
noLabel	The warheads were originally configured to be delivered from one of several aircraft types then in service with the South African Air Force (SAAF), including the Canberra B12 and the Blackburn Buccaneer.	Concerns about the vulnerability of the aircraft to the Cuban anti-aircraft defence network in Angola subsequently led the SADF investigate missile-based delivery system . 
noLabel	In referring to whether nor not a state allows private schools to convert into a charter school, one too can easily see the variation state to state.	California for example does not allow the conversion of a pre-existing private school into a charter school, but both Arizona and Michigan do allow private schools to convert, but with differing requirements.
noLabel	Though the procedure has had a low rate of use, representing 0.17% (2,232 of 1,313,000) of all abortions in the United States in the year 2000, according to voluntary responses to an Alan Guttmacher Institute survey, it has developed into a focal point of the abortion debate.	In the United States, intact dilation and extraction was made illegal in most circumstances by the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act in 2003, which the U.S. Supreme Court upheld in the case of Gonzales v. Carhart.
noLabel	In the book Ball Four, Jim Bouton's account of his season as a pitcher with the hapless Seattle Pilots and the Houston Astros in 1969, he writes at one point, We've been running short of greenies -- the casual tone suggesting that it was as if the fellas had broken too many bats and were awaiting their new shipment of Louisville Sluggers.	Estimates on how many players take greenies vary, but no one seriously suggests the pills have been anything but endemic, enough so to merit their own special vocabulary.
noLabel	On February 3, 2006, another poll from Epinion made for Danmarks Radio, had asked 509 people "Considering the events that have occurred in the past week, should Jylland-Posten have published the depictions?".	47% said they shouldn't have been published, 46% said the opposite, while the last 7% did not know which stance to take .
noLabel	Since giving his homily at the funeral of Pope John Paul, Pope Benedict XVI has continued to refer to John Paul II as "the Great."	At the 20th World Youth Day in Germany 2005, Pope Benedict XVI, speaking in Polish, John Paul's native language, said, "As the Great Pope John Paul&nbsp;II would say: keep the flame of faith alive in your lives and your people."
noLabel	In turn, public university administrators, lecturers and professors are granted civil servant status, which serves as a tenure because only under exceptional and very well justified circumstances can a civil servant lose his job under Spanish law.	Research funding can be allocated either by the autonomous community or by the central government; in the former case, funding amount and conditions vary greatly from one autonomous community to another. 
noLabel	The root of new attitudes arises from the formation of new relationships and interaction between the person and the world outside the community.	For example, the emergence of economics as an independent sphere reflected the tendency to reduce quality to a quantity in barter transactions and led to the development of money.
noLabel	Among factors that govern blood flow, however, viscosity is of relatively minor importance except in extreme circumstances or in patients with vascular disease.	The Hagen–Poiseuille equation for blood flow states that any change in blood viscosity affects blood flow 16-fold less than a proportionate change in vessel radius, and therefore polycythemia is unlikely to be harmful except in certain circumstances. 
noLabel	Nevertheless, while maintaining this role, the Japanese emperor became politically marginalized in the Nara and Heian periods by powerful regents of the Fujiwara clan who seized executive control of state.	Even though the Japanese imperial line itself remained unbroken after the eighth century, actual political authority passed through successive dynasties of regents and shoguns which cycled in a manner similar to that of Chinese dynasties.
noLabel	The current judicial interpretation of the U.S. Constitution regarding abortion in the United States, following the Supreme Court of the United States's 1973 landmark decision in Roe v. Wade, and subsequent companion decisions, is that abortion is legal but may be restricted by the states to varying degrees.	States have passed laws to restrict late term abortions, require parental notification for minors, and mandate the disclosure of abortion risk information to patients prior to the procedure . 
noLabel	Christians and Jews were not considered equals to Muslims: testimony against Muslims by Christians and Jews was inadmissible in courts of law.	They were forbidden to carry weapons or ride atop horses, their houses could not overlook those of Muslims, and their religious practices would have to defer to those of Muslims, in addition to various other legal limitations . 
noLabel	Since a defense is raised by the defendant in a direct attempt to avoid what would otherwise result in liability, the defendant typically holds the burden of proof.	For example, if a defendant in an assault and battery case attempts to claim provocation, the victim of said assault and battery would not have to prove that he did not provoke the plaintiff; the defendant would have to prove that the plaintiff did.
noLabel	Malléjac insisted that he wanted to start legal proceedings, and Dumas said: "I'm prepared to call for a charge of attempted murder."	The incident was never resolved however, with Mallejac returning for subsequent Tours and denying any wrongdoing for the rest of his life.
noLabel	During his imprisonment, the spectroscopist Hermann Schüler, who had a better relationship with the French, persuaded the French to appoint him as Deputy Director of the KWIP.	This incident caused tension between the physicists and spectroscopists at the KWIP and within its umbrella organization the Kaiser-Wilhelm Gesellschaft (Kaiser Wilhelm Society) .
noLabel	The report acknowledges that there has been a decrease of inequality in the Middle East, North Africa, and sub-Saharan Africa, but the level is still high in these regions overall (above a Gini coefficient of .40) .	It also notes that in a study done by the International Labour Organization (ILO), over two-thirds of the 85 countries surveyed experienced a rise in income inequality between 1990 and 2000 . 
noLabel	Not until capitalism emerges in Europe with its individualist ideological underpinnings does the conception of intellectual property and by extension copyright law emerge.	Intellectual production comes to be seen as a product of an individual and their property, rather than a collective or social product which belongs in the commons.
noLabel	Fornication was seen as a serious sin and a canonical crime  and those convicted were required to “pay fines and court costs,”  and they were often subject to public humiliation.	Public humiliation ranged from public confessions and requesting the forgiveness of the community (often by kneeling at the entrance of a church and begging those who entered for mercy), to public whippings in the churchyard or marketplace, to being paraded around the church “bare-chested and bearing a lighted candle before Sunday Mass” .
noLabel	Other organizations such as the Tabung Alam Malaysia, a branch of the World Wide Fund For Nature has also established offices in Malaysia since 1972 dedicated to nature conservation as well as education on the importance of forest conservation to the wider populace.	The Forest Research Institute of Malaysia has also been actively conducting research on the biodiversity of Malaysia's forests as well as in conservation.
noLabel	Her average score from the NRLC between the years of 1997 and 2010 is 93%, with her highest score being 100% and lowest being 75% .	NARAL Pro-Choice Texas executive director Sara Cleveland once said, "by our definition, Sen. Hutchison's voting record does not indicate that she is pro-choice.
noLabel	Countries such as the U.S. (in Pakistan and Yemen) and Israel (in the West Bank and Gaza) have used targeted killing to kill members of groups such as Al-Qaeda and Hamas .	In early 2010, with President Obama's approval, Anwar al-Awlaki became the first U.S. citizen to be approved for targeted killing by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) .
noLabel	Although most users did not purchase the registered version, over one million copies have been sold, and the popularity helped the sales of later games in the Doom series that were not released as shareware.	In 1995, The Ultimate Doom (version 1.9, including episode IV) was released, making this the first time that Doom was sold commercially in stores.
noLabel	Another major concern is the lack of implementation of the Leahy Law in U.S. and the consequences of that in worsening the human rights situation in Mexico.	Under this U.S. law, no member or unit of a foreign security force that is credibly alleged to have committed a human rights violation may receive U.S. security training.
noLabel	Some require a signature, some will accept any form of identification, such as an employee or student card, while some demand a photo ID card issued by the state itself (such as a driving license).	Debating the issue at a country or U.S.-state level will mean both sides have to be clear about the local rules or proposals.
noLabel	2K president Ken Levine defended the game as a piece of art, stating "we want to deal with challenging moral issues and if you want to do that, you have to go to some dark places" .	Jack Thompson took issue with advertisements for the game appearing during WWE SmackDown's airtime, writing to the Federal Trade Commission and stating that M-rated games should not be advertised when large numbers of under-17s are watching .
noLabel	On March 14, 2008, the United Kingdom Royal College of Psychiatrists released a statement saying that "The specific issue of whether or not induced abortion has harmful effects on women’s mental health remains to be fully resolved.	The current research evidence base is inconclusive—some studies indicate no evidence of harm, whilst other studies identify a range of mental disorders following abortion."
noLabel	South China from the Changjiang valley down to the South China Sea was the first part of the economy to liberalize in the 1980s and 1990s and is home to much of the country's most modern and often foreign-invested manufacturing industries.	Northern and north-eastern China's older industrial base has fallen behind, remains focused on the domestic economy and has suffered relative decline. 
noLabel	It asserts that a monarch is subject to no earthly authority, deriving his right to rule directly from the will of God.	The king is thus not subject to the will of his people, the aristocracy, or any other estate of the realm, including (in the view of some, especially in Protestant countries) the church.
noLabel	Some games such as NetHack, Diablo, and the FATE series randomize the structure of individual levels, increasing the game's variety and replayability .	Role-playing games where players complete quests by exploring randomly generated dungeons are sometimes called roguelikes, named after the 1980 video game Rogue . 
noLabel	Starting primarily in the 1980s and 1990s, the popularity of the "abstinence plus" sex education program grew into a common method of teaching students, in the United States, about sexuality.	The program understood that it would not be possible to stop all teenagers from having sex, but still stressed that abstinence is the only guaranteed way of avoiding unwanted pregnancies and contraction of STDs .
noLabel	Due to the growing concerns of the high cost, health consequences and illegal nature of steroids many organizations have formed in response and have deemed themselves "natural" bodybuilding competitions.	In addition to the concerns noted, many promoters of bodybuilding have sought to shed the "freakish" reputation that the general public perceives of bodybuilding and have successfully introduced a more mainstream audience to the sport of bodybuilding by including competitors whose physiques appear much more attainable and realistic. 
noLabel	Disputes within Ireland over the terms of Irish Home Rule led eventually to the partition of the island in 1921, with Dominion status for the Irish Free State in 1922 while Northern Ireland remained part of the UK .	As a result, in 1927, the formal title of the UK was changed to its current form, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . 
noLabel	California courts have interpreted “advertising” to include almost any statement made in connection with the sale of goods or services .	For example, Chern v. Bank of America held that a loan officer’s statement over the phone about interest rates was “advertising.” Conversely, Bank of the West v. Superior Court implied that advertising might require “widespread promotional activities directed to the public-at-large” and that mere “personal solicitations are not advertising.” . 
noLabel	 Studies by Keith Ward show that overall religion is a positive contributor to mental health, and a meta-analysis of 34 recent studies published between 1990 and 2001 also found that religiosity has a salutary relationship with psychological adjustment, being related to less psychological distress, more life satisfaction, and better self-actualization .	A 2009 working paper by Andrew E. Clark and Orsolya Lelkes based on surveys from 90,000 people in 26 European countries found that "[one's own] religious behaviour is positively correlated with individual life satisfaction."
noLabel	Other test scores (numbers from 1999 data in a year 2000 article) showed mixed results, for example showing higher levels for homeschoolers in English (homeschooled 23.4 vs national average 20.5) and reading (homeschooled 24.4 vs national average 21.4) on the ACT, but mixed scores in math (homeschooled 20.4 vs national average 20.7 on the ACT as opposed homeschooled 535 vs national average 511 on the 1999 SAT math) .	However, advocates of home education and educational choice counter with an input-output theory, pointing out that home educators expend only an average of $500–$600 a year on each student, in comparison to $9,000-$10,000 for each public school student in the United States, which raises a question about whether home-educated students would be especially dominant on tests if afforded access to an equal commitment of tax-funded educational resources .
noLabel	Index on Censorship paid special attention to the situation in then Czechoslovakia between the Soviet invasion of 1968 and the Velvet Revolution of 1989, devoting an entire issue to the country eight years after the Prague Spring (Issue 3/1976).	It included several pieces by Václav Havel, including a first translation of his one act play Conversation, and a letter to Czech officials on police censorship of his December 1975 production of The Beggar's Opera by John Gay . 
noLabel	On October 15, 2008, Anthony Faiola, Ellen Nakashima, and Jill Drew wrote a lengthy article in The Washington Post titled, "What Went Wrong" .	In their investigation, the authors claim that former Federal Reserve Board Chairman Alan Greenspan, Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin, and SEC Chairman Arthur Levitt vehemently opposed any regulation of financial instruments known as derivatives.
noLabel	Additionally, for those interested in heating and cooling their dwelling via renewable energy, geothermal heat pump systems that tap the constant temperature of the earth, which is around 7 to 15 degrees Celsius a few feet underground and increases dramatically at greater depths, are an option over conventional natural gas and petroleum-fueled heat approaches.	Also, in geographic locations where the Earth's Crust is especially thin, or near volcanoes (as is the case in Iceland) there exists the potential to generate even more electricity than would be possible at other sites, thanks to a more significant temperature gradient at these locales. 
noLabel	It has been argued that subsidised agriculture in the developed world is one of the greatest obstacles to economic growth in the developing world; which has an indirect impact on reducing the income available to invest in rural infrastructure such as health, safe water supplies and electricity for the rural poor .	The total amount of subsidies that go towards agriculture in OECD countries far exceeds the amount that countries provide in development aid.
noLabel	When an author contributes code to an Open Source project (e.g., Apache.org) they do so under an explicit license (e.g., the Apache Contributor License Agreement) or an implicit license (e.g., the Open Source license under which the project is already licensing code).	Some Open Source projects do not take contributed code under a license, but actually require (joint) assignment of the author’s copyright in order to accept code contributions into the project (e.g., OpenOffice.org and its Joint Copyright Assignment agreement). 
noLabel	As a result, he initiated the "Workshop in Money and Banking" (the "Chicago Workshop"), which promoted a revival of monetary studies.	During the latter half of the 1940s, Friedman began a collaboration with Anna Schwartz, an economic historian at the Bureau, that would ultimately result in the 1963 publication of a book co-authored by Friedman and Schwartz, A Monetary History of the United States, 1867–1960. 
noLabel	Testing nuclear weapons can yield information about how the weapons work, as well as how the weapons behave under various conditions and how structures behave when subjected to nuclear explosions.	Additionally, nuclear testing has often been used as an indicator of scientific and military strength, and many tests have been overtly political in their intention; most nuclear weapons states publicly declared their nuclear status by means of a nuclear test. 
noLabel	The Israel Defence Forces left the Gaza Strip on 1 September 2005 as part of Israel's unilateral disengagement plan, and all Israeli citizens were evicted from the area.	An 'Agreement on Movement and Access' between Israel and the Palestinian Authority was brokered by Condoleezza Rice in November 2005 to improve Palestinian freedom of movement and economic activity in the Gaza Strip.
noLabel	In April 2011, Utah attorney general Mark Shurtleff announced he would file an antitrust lawsuit against the BCS for, "serious antitrust violations that are harming taxpayer-funded institutions to the tune of hundreds of millions of dollars."	The announcement followed the April 12, 2011 delivery of a letter to the US Department of Justice signed by 21 "high-profile" economists and antitrust experts asking for an investigation into the BCS' anticompetitive practices .
noLabel	3444 in 2005), a bill "to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide credits against income tax for qualified stem cell research, the storage of qualified stem cells, and the donation of umbilical cord blood".	However, Paul believes the debate over the embryonic category of stem-cell research is another divisive issue over which the federal government has no jurisdiction.
noLabel	Direct lobbying is different from grassroots lobbying, a process that uses direct communication with the general public, who in turn, contacts and influences the government .	Washington, D.C. is the home to many firms that employ these strategies , with 11,140 lobbyists currently residing in the area . 
noLabel	According to Catalano study, assuming women in East Germany did not opt to abort male more than female, the best hypothesis is that a collapsing economy lowers the human birth sex ratio, while a booming economy raises the birth sex ratio.	Catalano notes that these trends may be related to the observed trend of elevated incidences of very low birth weight from maternal stress, during certain macroeconomic circumstances .
noLabel	Lotierzo also argues that part of the motivation for a 12-round limit was not so much for safety, but to allow the matches to appear on network television .	Previously, the timing of boxing involved 15 three-minute rounds with 14 one-minute intervals between each round, the preamble, and post-fight interviews—requiring around 70–75 minutes; in contrast, a 12-round bout lasts 47 minutes, which fits neatly into a one-hour time slot when pre- and post-fight programming and commercials are added in . 
noLabel	This could be called a two-teacher, two-class mould, or a rotation, similar to the concept of teams in junior high school.	Another method is to have the children have one set of classroom teachers in the first half of the year, and a different set of classroom teachers in the second half of the year. 
noLabel	A January 2003 CBS News/New York Times poll examined whether Americans thought abortion should be legal or not, and found variations in opinion which depended upon party affiliation and the region of the country .	The margin of error is +/- 4% for questions answered of the entire sample ("overall" figures) and may be higher for questions asked of subgroups (all other figures) .
noLabel	Among McCain's advisers are Robert Kagan and William Kristol, the co-founders of PNAC and neo-conservatives who were influential in implementing the Iraq War.	McCain has also allied himself with President George W. Bush, who brought into his administration a large number of PNAC members and neo-conservatives.
noLabel	By changing the law to guarantee they would win in court, the states extorted a quarter-trillion-dollar settlement, which was passed along in higher cigarette prices.	Basically, the tobacco companies had money; the states and their hired-gun attorneys wanted money; so the companies paid and the states collected.
noLabel	To illustrate, if an NPM only sold cigarettes in Kansas in 2006, the Kansas escrow statute would require that NPM to pay into the Kansas escrow fund $.0167539 for each cigarette the NPM sold in that state .	Pursuant to the refund provision in the originally enacted Kansas escrow statute, however, the NPM could obtain a refund of all but .8336712% of those payments. 
noLabel	In 2009, the then Conservative Opposition, who were well ahead in opinion polling for the next year's general election said they would introduce elected mayors for England's 12 biggest cities, if they won power.	In the 2010 general election, they did win power, albeit in a coalition government with the Liberal Democrats, and Prime Minister David Cameron reaffirmed his previous commitment to hold a series of referendums on whether to introduce mayors for the biggest English cities . 
noLabel	Ehrlich's views came to be accepted by many population control advocates in the United States and Europe in the 1960s and 1970s .	Since Ehrlich introduced his idea of the "population bomb," overpopulation has been blamed for a variety of issues, including increasing poverty, high unemployment rates, environmental degradation, famine and genocide .
noLabel	At present, a French born child of foreign parents does not automatically obtain French nationality until residency duration conditions are met.	Since 1 January 2005, a child born in Ireland does not automatically acquire Irish nationality unless certain conditions are met .
noLabel	In this, and many later contexts, the reference is specifically Christian, alluding to members of the Ordo Virginum known to have existed since the early church from the writings of the Church Fathers .	However, within about a century, the word was expanded to apply also to Mary, the mother of Jesus, hence to sexual virginity explicitly. 
noLabel	Common Sense Media partners with a number of media companies that distribute the organization’s free content to more than 100 million homes in the United States.	According to Common Sense Media’s website, the organization has content distribution contracts with Road Runner, TiVo, Yahoo!, Comcast, Time Warner Cable, DIRECTV, NBC Universal, Netflix, Best Buy, Google, Yahoo!, AOL/Huffington Post, Fandango, Trend Micro, Verizon Foundation, Nickelodeon, and more .
noLabel	FT is not a “law of nature,” and the pattern is influenced by national context (for example, human population density, stage of development, structure of the economy), global economic forces, and government policies.	A country may reach very low levels of forest cover before it stabilizes, or it might through good policies be able to “bridge” the forest transition. 
noLabel	One area in particular lies under heavy guard: the Temple Mount, enclosing both the Al-Aqsa Mosque and the Dome of the Rock.	The same ground is also the site of the ancient Jewish Holy Temple, which has been a source of tension between the religious communities. 
noLabel	Chairman of the Washington State Republican Party Chris Vance stated that he was "absolutely convinced that King County is trying to steal this election."	The National Rifle Association, which had endorsed Rossi, sent a mass e-mail on December 14 to its members asking for volunteers to go to King County in order to sit in on the county elections office and observe the recount. 
noLabel	Stromer-Galley considered that the following characteristics of the online conversation free people from the psychological barriers that keep them from engaging in a face-to-face deliberation; "an absence of non-verbal cues, which leads to a lowered sense of social presence, and a heightened sense of anonymity" .	Computer-mediated communication decreases social cues, and an absence of non-verbal communication should limit the capacity for ridicule and humiliation when people are physically isolated from each other.
noLabel	There is some evidence that the Second Step curriculum, which is concerned with promoting impulse control and empathy among second and third graders, produces reductions in physically aggressive behavior .	Other school-wide strategies are aimed at reducing or eliminating bullying and organizing the local police to better combat gang violence . 
noLabel	The Virgin Mary, was conferred such titles as Mother of God and Queen of Heaven and, in 863, her feast day, the "Feast of Our Lady", was declared equal in importance to those of Easter and Christmas.	Mary Magdalene's Feast Day was celebrated in earnest from the 8th century on and composite portraits of her were built up from Gospel references to other women Jesus met . 
noLabel	As noted, the Soviet PNE program was many times larger than the U.S. Plowshare program in terms of both the number of applications explored with field experiments and the extent to which they were introduced into industrial use.	Several PNE applications, such as deep seismic sounding and oil stimulation, were explored in depth and appeared to have had a positive cost benefit at minimal public risk.
noLabel	[2] Oxfam records that 1 in 5 in the UK live below the poverty line, and this is mostly children, pensioners or disabled people.	[3] The interest in poverty in relation to crime stems mainly from the factual reality that there is a significant, proven correlation between the two.
noLabel	The impact of the collapse of the IND Casework Programme project, (see earlier section), did not affect the work of tracing immigration offenders but the chaos in the Croydon HQ eventually had the effect of stopping the essential casework machinery that supported enforced removals.	IS enforcement was supported by two units whose function was to log new cases on the central database for this purpose, (HOMIES).
noLabel	The sovereign is one of the two components of parliament, but the monarch and viceroy do not participate in the legislative process save for the granting of Royal Assent, which is necessary for a bill to be enacted as law; either figure or a delegate may perform this task, and the viceroy has the option of deferring assent to the sovereign.	The Crown is further responsible for summoning, proroguing, and dissolving the House of Representatives, after which the Governor-General usually calls for a general election.
noLabel	The Judge might have good reasons not to recommend deportation, or might quite properly prefer to pass the decision to the Home Office, but these reasons would not be automatically communicated to IND.	If IND wanted to find out what they were, (and they were bound by policy and precedent to do so), then they had to write to the court and pay for a transcript of the Judges remarks.
noLabel	In addition to eroding the value of individual savings, this creation of monetary inflation leads to booms and busts in the economy.	Thus Paul argues that government, via a central bank (the Federal Reserve), is the primary cause of economic recessions and depressions.
noLabel	The Constitutionality of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 was, at the time, in some dispute as it applied to the private sector.	In the landmark Civil Rights Cases the United States Supreme Court had ruled that Congress did not have the power to prohibit discrimination in the private sector, thus stripping the Civil Rights Act of 1875 of much of its ability to protect civil rights . 
noLabel	According to critics, those states which possess nuclear weapons, but are not authorized to do so under the NPT, have not paid a significant price for their pursuit of weapons capabilities.	Also, the NPT has been explicitly weakened by a number of bilateral deals made by NPT signatories, notably the United States .
noLabel	Sprawl may have a negative impact on public schools as finances have been pulled out of city cores and diverted to wealthier suburbs .	They argue that the residential and social segregation of whites from blacks in the United States creates a socialization process that limits whites' chances for developing meaningful relationships with blacks and other minorities, and that the segregation experienced by whites from blacks fosters segregated lifestyles and can lead to positive views about themselves and negative views about blacks .
noLabel	Even though there will always be differences of opinion from time to time, we can at any rate come to general understandings, can love one another, and can enter the bonds of peace, pending the day when we shall attain unity of faith.	" Castellio is remembered for the often quoted statement, "To kill a man is not to protect a doctrine, but it is to kill a man. 
noLabel	As would later occur with Ernie Terrell, many sportswriters accused Ali of "carrying" Patterson so that he could physically punish him without knocking him out.	Ali countered that Patterson, who said his punching prowess was limited when he strained his sacroiliac, was not as easy to down as may have appeared.
noLabel	Under its review of the 2015 code, Wada wants to double the standard penalty for testing positive from two years to four and is considering forcing all sports to test for the "full menu" of banned substances every time.But Wada, which costs governments and the International Olympic Committee ┬ú17m a year, is not absolved from criticism.	Some believe it is overly bureaucratic, while others, including Parkinson, believe it must become more than a provider of testing and resources, taking on a more aggressive role.
noLabel	If more than 10% of the athletes in the world are being tempted to take a shortcut via taking prohibited substances then we've got an issue that is not being confronted as well as it should be.	"Arne Ljungqvist, chairman of the International Olympic Committee's medical commission and also a Wada vice president, admitted this week that the out-of-competition testing regime was still far from ideal.
noLabel	And there are the hundreds who just get on with the business of having a crafty smoke as and when their schedule allows.	Of course, unlike those who ingest smokeless tobacco, these sporting Nick O'Teens are causing themselves respiratory damage and probably prolonging their recovery from injury and so on.
noLabel	The purpose of these deals made by several successive Greek governments, was to enable them to continue spending, while hiding the actual deficit from the EU .	As reported in the table below, the revised statistics revealed that Greece at all years from 2000-2010 had exceeded the Euros stability criteria, with the yearly deficits exceeding the recommended maximum limit at 3.0% of GDP, and also the debt level clearly exceeding the recommended limit at 60% of GDP. 
noLabel	A study on wind farm noise reported that people are annoyed by sound from wind turbines at far less sound levels than they are by noises from railroads, aircraft, or road traffic.	The study found the percentage of respondents who found noise levels highly annoying rose quickly as sound levels increased above about 37dbA (about the level of a conversation) . 
noLabel	The risk of dying from any cause is statistically greater for cigar smokers than for people who have never smoked, with the risk higher for smokers less than 65 years old, and with risk for moderate and deep inhalers reaching levels similar to cigarette smokers .	However, for those who don't inhale and smoke 1 - 2 cigars per day, the risk of dying from all causes is statistically insignificant when compared to never smokers .
noLabel	The DeepCwind Consortium's  mission is to establish the State of Maine as a national leader in deepwater offshore wind technology through a research initiative funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, the National Science Foundation, and others.	The University of Maine-led consortium includes universities, nonprofits, and utilities; a wide range of industry leaders in offshore design, offshore construction, and marine structures manufacturing; firms with expertise in wind project siting, environmental analysis, environmental law, composites materials to assist in corrosion-resistant material design and selection, and energy investment; and industry organizations to assist with education and tech transfer activities. 
noLabel	Boycotts of Israel are economic and political cultural campaigns or actions that seek a selective or total cutting of ties with the State of Israel.	Such campaigns are employed by those who challenge the legitimacy of Israel, Israel's policies or actions towards the Palestinians over the course of the Arab-Israeli and Israeli-Palestinian conflict, oppose Israeli territorial claims in the West Bank or Jerusalem or even oppose Israel's right to exist.
noLabel	Modern scholars Thomas B. McAffee and Michael J. Quinlan have stated that James Madison "did not invent the right to keep and bear arms when he drafted the Second Amendment; the right was pre-existing at both common law and in the early state constitutions.	" In contrast, historian Jack Rakove suggests that Madison's intention in framing the Second Amendment was to provide assurances to moderate Anti-Federalists that the militias would not be disarmed . 
noLabel	Section 9007 of the bill renames the U.S. Department of Agriculture's current Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Program as the "Rural Energy for America Program," providing $55 million in CCC funds for FY 2009, increasing to $70 million for FY 2011 and 2012, while authorizing another $25 million in discretionary funds.	The program will provide grants of up to 25% of the cost of renewable energy systems and energy efficiency improvements for agricultural producers and rural small businesses, as well as guarantees for loans as large as $25 million. 
noLabel	Waltz's theory, as he explicitly makes clear in "Theory of International Politics", is not a theory of foreign policy and does not attempt to predict or explain specific state actions, such as the collapse of the Soviet Union.	The theory explains only general principles of behavior that govern relations between states in an anarchic international system, rather than specific actions.
noLabel	The PRC government also argues that the notion of human rights should include economic standards of living and measures of health and economic prosperity .	On cultural grounds they argue that as the economic, cultural and political situations differ substantially between countries, a universal 'one-size-fits-all' definition of human rights should not apply internationally.
noLabel	The lack of public awareness of the Marriage Law of 2005, which prohibits domestic violence, has allowed spousal abuse to persist.	In 2004 the All-China Women’s Federation compiled survey results to show that thirty percent of the women in China experienced domestic violence within their homes .
noLabel	In many developing countries, agriculture employs a large proportion of the labor force, whilst food consumption accounts for a large share of household income.	The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) notes that this means that “even small changes in agricultural employment opportunities, or prices, can have major socio-economic effects in developing countries”.
noLabel	The handling of refugees was largely dependent on their being able to show that they could maintain themselves or be maintained.	The Immigration Service cooperated with the Jewish support organizations who worked to provide support or provide sponsors but there was no agreed international approach to the handling of refugees.
noLabel	America has been fairly generous in giving to faith-based organizations; in 2004, gifts to religious causes made by Americans totaled $88.3 billion.	A mission of many of these religions is to spread their message to countries all over the world in hopes of converting or dileberately changing religious beliefs of as many people as possible.
noLabel	Activities are for the most part initially presented by the teacher, after which they may be chosen more or less freely by the children as interest dictates.	Classroom materials usually include activities for engaging in practical skills such as pouring and spooning, materials for the development of the senses, math materials, language materials, music and art materials, and more .
noLabel	[1] Information should be reached by much of the common public if it is to catalyze change in the areas being exposed.	It may be helpful to strengthen people’s capacity to act upon the information they receive through transparency, in order to increase its effectiveness. 
noLabel	The fiscal year 2011 "total budget" deficit was $1.296 trillion or 8.7% GDP, similar to the $1.294 trillion or 9.0% GDP in 2010.	These deficits are considerably higher than pre-crisis levels, which ranged from a $236 billion (2.4% GDP) surplus in 2000 to a $459 billion (3.2% GDP) deficit in 2008 . 
noLabel	Grayling responded that at least one well-known academic would deliver a lecture every day of the academic year, though most of the teaching will be done by others .	The Guardian wrote that Dawkins, Krauss, and Jones will deliver two lectures a week in scientific literacy between them, over two terms, and Blackburn 10–20 lectures a year .
noLabel	" Birth tourism can be a lucrative business for immigrants who facilitate the travel and birthing process for their former countrymen.	Turkish doctors, hotel owners, and immigrant families in the United States have reportedly arranged the U.S. birth of 12,000 Turkish children since 2003.
noLabel	As of 2002, about twenty percent of young teens (13–15) smoke worldwide, with 80,000 to 100,000 children taking up the addiction every day—roughly half of whom live in Asia.	Half of those who begin smoking in adolescent years are projected to go on to smoke for 15 to 20 years . 
noLabel	At the same time, local leaders engage in "corruption protectionism," as coined by the head of the Hunan provincial Party Discipline Inspection Commission; apparatchiks thwart corruption investigations against the staff of their own agencies, allowing them to escape punishment.	In some cases this has impelled high-ranking officials to form special investigative groups with approval from the central government to avoid local resistance and enforce cooperation .
noLabel	It is reported that Ghana, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Ethiopia have similar plans to produce generic antiviral drugs.	Western pharmaceutical companies initially responded with legal challenges, but some have now promised to introduce alternative pricing structures for developing countries and NGOs . 
noLabel	Indirect consumption is mainly oil and natural gas used to manufacture fertilizers and pesticides, which accounted for 0.6 exajoules (0.6 quadrillion BTU) in 2002 .	The energy used to manufacture farm machinery is also a form of indirect agricultural energy consumption, but it is not included in USDA estimates of U.S. agricultural energy use.
noLabel	The Mega-CD/Sega CD version of the game was released featuring a video intro of the Mortal Monday commercial and loading times.	This port did not require a code to be entered to access the uncensored content and thus was given an MA-17 rating.
noLabel	This problem, the only absolute indication for circumcision, affects some 0.6% of boys, peaks in incidence at 11 years of age, and is rarely encountered before the age of 5.	(…) Strictly, only some 0.6% of boys with pathological phimosis need to be circumcised, although more relaxed criteria would allow for a similar proportion affected by recurrent balanoposthitis. 
noLabel	British cabinet ministers had been criticized in October 2006 for helping to "unleash a public anti-Muslim backlash" in the United Kingdom by blaming the Muslim community over issues of integration despite a study commissioned by the Home Office on white and Asian-Muslim youths demonstrating "White youths are more likely to believe they are superior to those from other races, and their attitudes are more of a barrier to integration than those of Muslims" .	A Europe-wide survey by Gallup in May 2009 also found that the Muslim communities in Britain, Germany and France felt more patriotic towards those countries compared to the general populations as a whole, while another survey found that Muslims supported the role of Christianity in British life more so than Christians themselves .
noLabel	Unlike Thomas Hobbes, who saw uniformity of religion as the key to a well-functioning civil society, Locke argued that more religious groups actually prevent civil unrest.	In his opinion, civil unrest results from confrontations caused by any magistrate's attempt to prevent different religions from being practiced, rather than tolerating their proliferation.
noLabel	Phillippia Simmons reports that many of the studies which have investigated intra- and interracial crime seek to explain this through a theory of macrostructural opportunity which states that interracial violence is primarily a function of opportunity and access .	According to this theory, intraracial crime rates remain relatively high due to the fact that much of the US remains residentially segregated.
noLabel	12) are bills proposed by US President Barack Obama in a nationally televised address to a joint session of Congress on September 8, 2011 .	He characterized it as non-controversial measures designed to get Americans back to work, and he repeatedly urged Congress to pass the bill "right away"; he also said that the bill would not add to the national deficit and would be fully paid for .
noLabel	According to scholar Elaine Pagels, "In AD 367, Athanasius, the zealous bishop of Alexandria.. issued an Easter letter in which he demanded that Egyptian monks destroy all such unacceptable writings, except for those he specifically listed as 'acceptable' even 'canonical' — a list that constitutes the present 'New Testament'".	Although Pagels cites Athanasius's Paschal letter (letter 39) for 367 AD, there is no order for monks to destroy heretical works contained in that letter .
noLabel	For example, Wittgenstein wrote in Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus: "The subject doesn't belong to the world, but it is a limit of the world" (proposition 5.632).	Metaphysical subjectivism is the theory that reality is what we perceive to be real, and that there is no underlying true reality that exists independently of perception.
noLabel	The theory explains a vocal minority (the complement of the silent majority) by stating that people who are highly educated, or who have greater affluence, and the few other cavalier individuals who do not fear isolation, are likely to speak out regardless of public opinion .	It further states that this minority is a necessary factor of change while the compliant majority is a necessary factor of stability, with both being a product of evolution.
noLabel	Solar thermal power stations include the 354&nbsp;megawatt (MW) Solar Energy Generating Systems power plant in the USA, Solnova Solar Power Station (Spain, 150&nbsp;MW), Andasol solar power station (Spain, 100&nbsp;MW), Nevada Solar One (USA, 64&nbsp;MW), PS20 solar power tower (Spain, 20&nbsp;MW), and the PS10 solar power tower (Spain, 11&nbsp;MW).	The 370 MW Ivanpah Solar Power Facility, located in California's Mojave Desert, is the world’s largest solar-thermal power plant project currently under construction .
noLabel	The principle on which industrial unionism takes its stand is the recognition of the never ending struggle between the employers of labor and the working class.	[The industrial union] must educate its members to a complete understanding of the principles and causes underlying every struggle between the two opposing classes.
noLabel	In order to protect soldiers from charges for possible war crime charges, the IDF censor banned the publication of the identity of military leaders who fought Hamas in Gaza .	In addition, a defense team was set up to co-ordinate a legal defense for civilians and the military, should war crimes charges be raised .
noLabel	The group has sent information to top law schools around the country, encouraging students who agree with this viewpoint to take the demographic data into account when choosing where to work after graduation .	As more students choose where to work based on the firms' diversity rankings, firms face an increasing market pressure in order to attract top recruits .
noLabel	Equality legislation in the UK, formerly in separate Acts and regulations for each protected characteristic, is now primarily found in the Equality Act 2010.	Particularly since the United Kingdom joined the Social Chapter of the European Union treaties, it mirrors a series of EU Directives.
noLabel	Canadian multiculturalism is looked upon with admiration outside the country, resulting in the Canadian public dismissing most critics of the concept .	Supports declare that multiculturalism helps in bringing together immigrants and minorities in the country and pushes them towards being part of the Canadian society and feeling more at home.
noLabel	Sports are usually governed by a set of rules or customs, which serve to ensure fair competition, and allow consistent adjudication of the winner.	Winning can by determined by physical events such as scoring goals or crossing a line first, or by the determination of judges who are scoring elements of the sporting performance, including objective or subjective measures such as technical performance or artistic impression. 
noLabel	In recent years, some council or ex-council high-rises in the United Kingdom, including Trellick Tower, Keeling House, Sivill House and The Barbican Estate, have become popular with young professionals due to their excellent views, desirable locations and architectural pedigrees, and now command high prices.	There are plans to redevelop the Little London and Lovell Park areas on the fringes of Leeds city centre into luxury flats for 'Young Urban Professionals'.
noLabel	While Summorum Pontificum directs that pastors should provide the Tridentine Mass upon the requests of the faithful, it also allows for any qualified priest to offer private celebrations of the Tridentine Mass, to which the faithful may be admitted if they wish .	For regularly scheduled public celebrations of the Tridentine Mass, the permission of the priest in charge of the church is required . 
noLabel	The 2006 TaBOR initiatives were referred to variously as Stop OverSpending (SOS) (in Nebraska), Taxpayer Bill of Rights (in Maine and Oklahoma) and the "Rainy Day Amendment" (in Oregon) consisting of ballot Measure 41 and 48.	The Oklahoma Supreme Court threw out the TaBOR initiative in that state because it had too few signatures and "evidence supported substantial illegal participation of out-of-state circulators.
noLabel	The day following the raid, CEO Henry Juszkiewicz took a leave of absence from the board of the Rainforest Alliance .	Gibson Guitar holds a chain-of-custody certification from the Rainforest Alliance, however wood from Madagascar is not covered under that certificate . 
noLabel	A further approach to the Charter, taken by the courts, is the dialogue principle, which involves greater participation by elected governments.	This approach involves governments drafting legislation in response to court rulings and courts acknowledging the effort if the new legislation is challenged.
noLabel	Palin also joined with nearby communities in hiring the Anchorage-based lobbying firm of Robertson, Monagle & Eastaugh to lobby for federal funds.	The firm secured nearly $8 million in earmarks for the Wasilla city government, including $500,000 for a youth shelter, $1.9&nbsp;million for a transportation hub, and $900,000 for sewer repairs . 
noLabel	Later that year, the Egyptian government daily Al-Gumhouriyya slammed Hamas's firing of "primitive" rockets at Israel that, according to the writer, serve only to prompt a deadly response from Israel.	He blamed Hamas for turning the Gaza Strip into a big prison isolated from the world, where the residents suffer poverty while the leaders live in luxury .
noLabel	Restrictions were placed on Romanian and Bulgarian citizens when they joined in 2007 which slowed their flow into the job market .	Concerns among some government agencies about benefit fraud by EEA citizens and concerns within the National Health Service (NHS) about illicit "health tourism" by foreign nationals meant that closer working and "joined up" government became newly fashionable concepts; but the constraints of the Data Protection Act and the nervousness of government agencies in identifying foreign nationals meant that progress in tackling identity fraud would be slow. 
noLabel	A famous example of this spoiler effect occurred in the 2002 French presidential election, when so many left-wing candidates stood in the first round that all of them were eliminated and two right-wing candidates advanced to the second round.	Conversely, an important faction may have an interest in helping fund the campaign of smaller factions with a very different political agenda, so that these smaller parties end up weakening their own agenda.
noLabel	The officer will briefly interview all arriving people who are not British Citizens or EU nationals, check their document for alterations or forgery, verify any entry clearances held, assess their travel history against the stamps in their passport, check them against warnings lists and do all of this, usually, in less than two minutes.	If the officer is satisfied they will stamp the passport with one of a variety of wordings, (conditions), depending on the reason for the persons stay and apply a time limit according to pre-set criteria.
noLabel	There was a significant increase in the breast sizes of the female characters in Soul Calibur IV that was not there in in earlier versions.	The female characters breast in the earlier version of the game were already depicted as being larger then then a real women's breasts. 
noLabel	Justice Thomas filed a concurring opinion, joined by Justice Scalia, saving for another day the issue of whether Congress had sufficient power under the Commerce Clause to enact this ban .	The Commerce Clause was also mentioned in the opinion of the Court, and was the only clause of the Constitution mentioned explicitly by the opinions in this case. 
noLabel	The Sapir–Whorf hypothesis, which states that thought is inherently embedded in language, would support the claim that an effort to limit the use of words of language is actually a form of restricting freedom of thought.	This was explored in George Orwell's novel 1984, with the idea of Newspeak, a stripped-down form of the English language lacking the capacity for metaphor and limiting expression of original ideas.
noLabel	In February 2004 at least 23 Chinese nationals were drowned in an horrific disaster at Morecambe Bay, Lancashire when cut off by tides while cockling – digging for cockles.	This tragedy, and crime, was the result of a number of factors; the fact that the people had been trafficked by "Snakeheads" and then used for illegal labour by a Gangmaster who had no regard for their safety, (and who was subsequently jailed). 
noLabel	These proposals ranged from various forms of worker cooperatives coordinated by free markets such as Mutualism (economic theory), to state-owned enterprises competing with each other in open and unregulated markets.	These models of socialism are not to be confused with other forms of market socialism, such as the Lange model, where publicly-owned enterprises are coordinated by a degree of economic planning in regulated markets. 
noLabel	It contains, however, an "ordering" of external and internal conduct, and so regarded is, as a matter of course, identical with both the old law and the law of nature.	The consilia (see Consilia Evangelica) show how one may attain the end "better and more expediently" by full renunciation of worldly goods. 
noLabel	The energy consumed to manufacture and transport the materials used to build a wind power plant is equal to the new energy produced by the plant within a few months.	While a wind farm may cover a large area of land, many land uses such as agriculture are compatible, with only small areas of turbine foundations and infrastructure made unavailable for use . 
noLabel	By the mid-1950s, individuals in the United States began to sue the companies responsible for manufacturing and marketing cigarettes for damages related to the effects of smoking.	In the forty years through 1994, over 800 private claims were brought against tobacco companies in state courts across the country .
noLabel	One of his clients, Christina Chuo, explains that her parents "paid a huge amount of money for their education" in the United States because they were foreign students; having an American citizen child permits her child to acquire the same education at a lower tuition.	She also noted that she and her husband were not interested in permanently immigrating to the United States, "except, perhaps, when they retire.
noLabel	By 1900, legislators at the urgings of the American Medical Association had enacted laws banning abortion in most U.S. states .	In its landmark 1973 case, Roe v. Wade where a woman challenged the Texas laws criminalizing abortion, the U.S. Supreme Court reached two important conclusions:
noLabel	This may include the negotiation of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, firing and promotion of workers, benefits, workplace safety and policies.	The agreements negotiated by the union leaders are binding on the rank and file members and the employer and in some cases on other non-member workers. 
noLabel	For example, a 1999 study by the Guttmacher Institute found that most U.S. sex education courses in grades 7 through 12 cover puberty, HIV, STDs, abstinence, implications of teenage pregnancy, and how to resist peer pressure.	Other studied topics, such as methods of birth control and infection prevention, sexual orientation, sexual abuse, and factual and ethical information about abortion, varied more widely . 
noLabel	Tobacco costs the U.S. more than $96 billion in health care expenditures and $97 billion in lost productivity each year .	Despite declines in youth tobacco use over the past few decades, the United States is still faced with troubling statistics that the FDA regulations help address .
noLabel	In January 2003, Obama became chairman of the Illinois Senate's Health and Human Services Committee when Democrats, after a decade in the minority, regained a majority .	He sponsored and led unanimous, bipartisan passage of legislation to monitor racial profiling by requiring police to record the race of drivers they detained, and legislation making Illinois the first state to mandate videotaping of homicide interrogations .
noLabel	"The headTony Campbell, 49, headmaster of 800-pupil St Richard's School, Bexhill-on-Sea: If you were to start with a blank sheet of paper, you wouldn't base the school calendar on agrarian seasons as it currently is.	Year-round education would allow you to package the curriculum well, and I hope that it would prove a catalyst to change in the exam system too.
noLabel	In Zelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U.S. 639 (2002), the Supreme Court of the United States held that school vouchers could be used to pay for education in sectarian schools without violating the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.	As a result, states are basically free to enact voucher programs that provide funding for any school of the parent's choosing. 
noLabel	Writing in 2009 Ronald Deibert, professor of political science at the University of Toronto and co-founder and one of the principal investigators of the OpenNet Initiative, and, writing in 2011, Evgeny Morzov, a visiting scholar at Stanford University and an Op-Ed contributor to the New York Times, explain that companies in the United States, Finland, France, Germany, Britain, Canada, and South Africa are in part responsible for the increasing sophistication of online content filtering worldwide.	While the off-the-shelf filtering software sold by Internet security companies are primarily marketed to businesses and individuals seeking to protect themselves and their employees and families, they are also used by governments to block what they consider sensitive content . 
noLabel	“I believe that… in the wake of the problems of mass migration that we have been facing our system is not fit for purpose.	It is inadequate in terms of its scope; it is inadequate in terms of its information technology, leadership, management, systems and processes; and we have tried to cope with this new age, if you like, with a system that has been inherited from an age that came before it” . 
noLabel	Some problems that arise from this imbalance are enormous numbers of unmarried men, an increase in trafficking of women, crime and prostitution, the reinforcement of male superiority and damage to traditionally female industries.	The motion begs the question whether governments in these countries ought to instigate a policy to provide incentives for parents to produce girls.
noLabel	Ethical egoism is sometimes the philosophical basis for support of libertarianism or individualist anarchism as in Max Stirner, although these can also be based on altruistic motivations .	These are political positions based partly on a belief that individuals should not coercively prevent others from exercising freedom of action.
noLabel	In effect, this is preventing a judicial ruling determining whether there is a legal basis for such expansive executive power .	With that in mind, applying this privilege makes impeachment the only possible means left for Congress to exercise their duty to uphold the checks and balances constitutionally intended to prevent abuse of power .
noLabel	In 1976, the World Health Assembly voted to enact a resolution on Disability Prevention and Rehabilitation, with a focus on community-driven care.	The first list of essential medicines was drawn up in 1977, and a year later the ambitious goal of "health for all" was declared.
noLabel	Other controversial incidents include helicopter crashes, the Girard incident, the Michael Brown Okinawa assault incident, the death of Kinjo family and the death of Yuki Uema.	In February 2008, a 38-year-old U.S. Marine based on Okinawa was arrested in connection with the reported rape of a 14-year-old Okinawan girl .
noLabel	For these reasons, methodological individualists tend to disagree with claims such as "we deserve the government we have, because we are doing it to ourselves," since perhaps that individual and very possibly many others disagree with the actions of the individuals who hold government power.	That said, many individualists are willing to use "we" in reference to government or society as a convenient shorthand as long as the fact that these entities are composed of individuals is kept in mind.
noLabel	In November 1998, the Qt toolkit was licensed under the free/open-source Q Public License (QPL) but debate continued about compatibility with the GNU General Public License (GPL).	In September 2000, Trolltech made the Unix version of the Qt libraries available under the GPL, in addition to the QPL, which has eliminated the concerns of the Free Software Foundation. 
noLabel	For example, instant runoff voting is considered to have less frequent IIA failure than First Past the Post (also known as Plurality Rule).	The independence of Smith-dominated alternatives (ISDA) criterion is much weaker than IIA; unlike IIA, some ranked-ballot voting methods can pass ISDA. 
noLabel	These trees need to be able to withstand the hot temperatures and strong winds that occur above the canopy in some areas.	Several unique faunal species inhabit this layer such as the crowned eagle (Stephanoaetus coronatus), the king colobus (Colobus polykomos), and the large flying fox (Pteropus vampyrus) . 
noLabel	The concept of separation has been adopted in a number of countries, to varying degrees depending on the applicable legal structures and prevalent views toward the proper role of religion in society.	A similar but typically stricter principle of laïcité has been applied in France and Turkey, while some socially secularized countries such as Norway, Denmark and the UK have maintained constitutional recognition of an official state religion.
noLabel	In Japan, for example, the SOFA includes the provision that service members are not turned over to the local authorities until they are charged in a court .	In a number of cases, local officials have complained that this impedes their ability to question suspects and investigate the crime.
noLabel	They also noted that players could still play a "leaked uncensored version" of Manhunt 2 on modded PlayStation 3, as Take-Two Interactive mentioned.	The organization asked the FTC to launch a federal investigation into the ESRB rating process, citing the wide availability of the leaked version and the damage to children that the censored version still had . 
noLabel	The NY Times quotes a study published by the Israel-based Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center, charging Hamas with methodically building its military infrastructure in the heart of population centers.	According to the study, Hamas not only hides among the population, but has made a main component of its combat strategy "channeling" the army into the densely populated areas to fight .During the Gaza War, Hamas invested great effort in preventing civilians from leaving neighborhoods that were in the line of fire and letting them flee to the south of the Strip . 
noLabel	Many children who are poor, regardless of race, come from homes that lack stability, continuity of care, adequate nutrition, and medical care creating a level of environmental stress that can affect the young child’s development.	As a result, these children enter school with decreased word knowledge that can affect their language skills, influence their experience with books, and create different perceptions and expectations in the classroom context . 
noLabel	On another side the soul of Christ works miracles only as instrument of the Logos, since omnipotence in no way appertains to this human soul in itself.	Concerning redemption, Aquinas teaches that Christ is to be regarded as redeemer after his human nature but in such way that the human nature produces divine effects as organ of divinity.
noLabel	American historian Christopher Browning, an expert witness for the defense, wrote a comprehensive essay for the court summarizing the voluminous evidence for the reality of the Holocaust, and under cross-examination, effectively countered all of Irving's principal arguments to the contrary .	Cambridge historian Richard J. Evans, another defense expert witness, spent two years examining Irving's writings, and confirmed his misrepresentations, including evidence that he had knowingly used forged documents as source material.
noLabel	In United States v. Williams, 553 U.S. 285 (2008), by a vote of 7–2, the Supreme Court upheld the PROTECT Act of 2003.	The Court ruled that prohibiting offers to provide and requests to obtain child pornography did not violate the First Amendment, even if a person charged under the Act did not possess child pornography .
noLabel	 On 21 April 2008, the republican movement released a poll of New Zealanders showing 43% support the monarchy should Prince Charles become King of New Zealand, and 41% support a republic under the same scenario.	 A poll by the New Zealand Herald in January 2010, before a visit by Prince William to the country found 33.3% wanted Prince Charles to be the next monarch, with 30.2% favouring Prince William.
noLabel	His paternalistic programs won the support of German industry because its goals were to win the support of the working classes for the Empire and reduce the outflow of immigrants to America, where wages were higher but welfare did not exist .	Bismarck further won the support of both industry and skilled workers by his high tariff policies, which protected profits and wages from American competition, although they alienated the liberal intellectuals who wanted free trade .
noLabel	In addition to the Japanese military personnel who died in the Battle for Okinawa, more than one third of the civilian population, 300,000 people, were killed, and many important documents, artifacts, and sites related to Ryukyuan history and culture were destroyed, including the royal Shuri Castle .	Americans had expected the Okinawan people to welcome them as liberators but the Japanese had used propaganda to make the Okinawans fearful of Americans.
noLabel	At about 07:50 Japanese time, an air raid alert was sounded in Nagasaki, but the "all clear" signal was given at 08:30.	When only two B-29 Superfortresses were sighted at 10:53, the Japanese apparently assumed that the planes were only on reconnaissance and no further alarm was given. 
noLabel	On August 24, 2008, during a general strategy meeting, Steve Schmidt, and a few other senior advisers to the McCain Campaign, discussed potential vice presidential picks with the consensus settling around Palin.	The following day, the strategists advised McCain of their conclusions and he personally called Palin, who was at the Alaska State Fair . 
noLabel	Biodiversity's relevance to human health is becoming an international political issue, as scientific evidence builds on the global health implications of biodiversity loss .	This issue is closely linked with the issue of climate change, as many of the anticipated health risks of climate change are associated with changes in biodiversity (e.g.
noLabel	Arranged marriage is very common in the Middle East, India and Africa, while in some Asian and most Western cultures, the romantic marriage is idealized and the right to choose marital partners is valued.	An arranged marriage is perceived correctly (if a forced marriage) or incorrectly as an infringement on this right, and therefore is viewed unfavorably. 
noLabel	Annie E Casie Foundation: The goal of this foundation is to provide a brighter and safer future for children from under-served communities around the US.	It's major initiatives include: child welfare strategy group, civic sites, family economic success, juvenile detention alternatives initiative (JDAI), KIDS COUNT, leadership development, and making connections.
noLabel	Normally, pressure is applied by the international community and humanitarian organization to ensure displaced people are able to return to their areas of origin and the same property .	The UN Principles for Housing and Property Restitution for Refugees and IDPs, otherwise known as the Pinheiro Principles, provides guidance on the management of the technical and legal aspects of housing, land and property (HLP) restitution .
noLabel	A two-term limit was imposed on New York City Council members and citywide elected officials (except for district attorneys) in New York City after a 1993 referendum (see the Charter of the City of New York, §1138).	On November 3, 2008, however, mayor Michael Bloomberg signed a bill extending the two-term limit to a three-term limit and has now been elected to a third term. 
noLabel	Later visiting the country to "reiterate the solidarity between the cultures," it was reported that he made a counter-statement backing Turkey's bid to join the EU.	Prime Minister of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, said that the pope told him in their meeting that while the Vatican seeks to stay out of politics it desires Turkey's membership in the EU .
noLabel	One of the biggest critiques of the passing of this bill comes from economists who believe that an increase in the federal cigarette tax will lead to decreased funding for state programs that rely on their own state cigarette taxes .	According to Nobel prize winning economist Gary Becker, who has studied the long-run price elasticity of cigarettes, the tax increase as a result of the Children’s Health Insurance Program Reauthorization Act increases the price of cigarettes 13.3% which ultimately means a 10.6% decrease in unit sales.
noLabel	In July 1933, the Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring calling for compulsory sterilization of the "inferior" was passed.	This major eugenic policy led to over 200 Hereditary Health Courts () being set up, under whose rulings over 400,000 people were sterilized against their will during the Nazi period . 
noLabel	She contends that anti-Zionism is anti-semitic because it is discriminatory: "..antisemitism is involved when the belief is articulated that of all the peoples on the globe (including the Palestinians), only the Jews should not have the right to self-determination in a land of their own.	Or, to quote noted human rights lawyer David Matas: One form of antisemitism denies access of Jews to goods and services because they are Jewish.
noLabel	Independence of Smith-dominated alternatives (ISDA)—.. if a Smith-dominated candidate is added or removed (assuming votes regarding the other candidates are unchanged)?	Candidate C is Smith-dominated if there is some other candidate A such that C is beaten by A and every candidate B that is not beaten by A.
noLabel	The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) Chairman Jon Wellinghoff has stated that "baseload capacity is going to become an anachronism" and that no new nuclear or coal plants may ever be needed in the United States .	This however is a minority viewpoint within President Obama's administration which via expanded federal loan guarantees in the proposed 2011 budget is supporting a nuclear renaissance . 
noLabel	Twenty-one cities in Sweden, including Gothenburg and Malmö, held demonstrations, with thousands of protesters clutching Palestinian flags as they marched on the Israeli Embassy in Stockholm, while speakers expressed their "disgust and dismay" .	In Norway, approximately 2,000 demonstrators gathered peacefully in front of the Israeli Embassy in Oslo, while chanting slogans and calling for a "boycott of Israel" and closure of the Israeli Embassy .
noLabel	On 1 April 1937, Burma became a separately administered colony of Great Britain and Ba Maw the first Prime Minister and Premier of Burma.	Ba Maw was an outspoken advocate for Burmese self-rule and he opposed the participation of Great Britain, and by extension Burma, in World War II.
noLabel	After the Napoleonic Wars and ensuing rise and fall of Napoleon's First French Empire, a restoration of absolutist monarchy was followed by two further successful smaller revolutions (1830 and 1848).	This meant the 19th century and process of modern France taking shape saw France again successively governed by a similar cycle of constitutional monarchy (1830–48), fragile republic (Second Republic) (1848–1852), and empire (Second Empire) (1852–1870). 
noLabel	In Britain, a response to the still new habit of smoking met royal opposition in 1604, when King James I wrote A Counterblast to Tobacco, describing smoking as: "A custome loathsome to the eye, hateful to the nose, harmeful to the brain, dangerous to the lungs, and in the black stinking fume thereof, nearest resembling the horrible Stigian smoke of the pit that is bottomeless."	His commentary was accompanied by a doctor of the same period, writing under the pseudonym Philaretes, who as well as explaining tobacco's harmful effects under the system of the four humours ascribed an infernal motive to its introduction, explaining his dislike of tobacco as grounded upon eight 'principal reasons and arguments' (in their original spelling): . 
noLabel	Tom Gleisner, host of The Panel (a prime-time comedy/panel discussion show), openly stated on the show that he had downloaded and watched the film.	Former New South Wales Premier Bob Carr stated that he thought the banning of Ken Park and other films is inappropriate, and his Attorney-General Bob Debus would discuss changing the laws with other state Attorneys-General at a then upcoming meeting. 
noLabel	There are three inducements of support that Americans are powerless against: the promise of whiter teeth, the suggestion of no-diet weight loss and the cause of justice.Political campaigns tend to couch their appeals in terms of the last, though parts of the Romney-Ryan economic pitch could be described as the second.	In today's truly divisive debates, both parties have usually engineered a rhetorical claim to the side of fairness: gay rights advocates propelled themselves forward when they began to argue for "marriage equality" against the outdated complaint of "special rights".Americans rankle at unearned privileges as much as they rally, in the main, to equality.
noLabel	Besides the United States and Soviet Union, France and China are understood to have tested neutron or enhanced radiation bombs in the past, with France apparently leading the field with an early test of the technology in 1967 and an "actual" neutron bomb in 1980 .	The 1999 Cox Report indicates that China is able to produce neutron bombs, although no country is currently known to deploy them. 
noLabel	Tobacco companies are using similar strategies to attract women in other countries that they used in the early days of attracting American women.	Offering appealing ads that depict cigarettes as modern, empowering, and liberating draws in women smokers who make every effort to be as western as possible .
noLabel	The roll call of those tainted by drugs includes so many of the great and good that we merely shrug in disappointment at each revelation.	The only surprising development would be if the next person to provide a positive sample reacted by holding up his or her hands and saying: "It's a fair cop.
noLabel	From 1981 to 1986, Pacific Legal Foundation and San Luis Obispo County, California, filed a suit attempting to obtain the mailing list of the Abalone Alliance to get the group to pay for the police costs of the largest anti-nuclear civil-disobedience act in U.S. history at the Diablo Canyon Power Plant.	Pacific Legal Foundation lost at every court level and withdrew the suit the day before it was due to be heard by the U.S. Supreme Court.
noLabel	One version of this legislation, the Farm, Nutrition, and Bioenergy Act of 2007 was passed by the United States House of Representatives on July 27, 2007.	Despite opposition from some senators, including a failed amendment proposal by Senator Richard Lugar and a veto threat by President Bush, the Senate version of the bill, called the Food and Energy Security Act, was passed by the Senate Agriculture Committee on October 25, 2007 and later by the full Senate on December 14 .
noLabel	While there is little information regarding the extent of maltreatment in elderly populations, especially in developing countries, it is estimated that 4-6% of elderly people in high-income countries have experienced some form of maltreatment at home However, older people are often afraid to report cases of maltreatment to family, friends, or to the authorities.	Data on the extent of the problem in institutions such as hospitals, nursing homes and other long-term care facilities are scarce.
noLabel	A steel dam is a type of dam briefly experimented with in around the turn of the 19th-20th Century which uses steel plating (at an angle) and load bearing beams as the structure.	Intended as permanent structures, steel dams were an (arguably failed) experiment to determine if a construction technique could be devised that was cheaper than masonry, concrete or earthworks, but sturdier than timber crib dams.
noLabel	" Douglas preferred the first trimester line, while Stewart said the lines were "legislative" and wanted more flexibility and consideration paid to the state legislatures, though he joined Blackmun's decision .	Brennan proposed abandoning frameworks based on the age of the fetus and instead allowing states to regulate the procedure based on its safety for the mother .
noLabel	In 1943 a different Japanese Naval command began a nuclear research program, the F-Go Project, under Bunsaku Arakatsu at the Imperial University, Kyoto.	Arakatsu had spent some years studying abroad including at the Cavendish Laboratory at Cambridge under Ernest Rutherford and at Berlin University under Einstein.
noLabel	Following a first round of arguments, all seven Justices tentatively agreed that the law should be struck down, but for varying reasons .	Burger assigned the role of writing the Court's opinion in Roe (as well as Doe) to Blackmun, who began drafting a preliminary opinion that emphasized what he saw as the Texas law's vagueness .
noLabel	Cox states that sources vary on the minimum yearly income to be considered among the 1%, ranging from about $500,000 to $1.3 million, whereas CEO salaries average $3.9 million, $10.6 million for those whose companies are in the Standard & Poor’s 500 and $19.8 million for companies in the Dow Jones Industrial Average.	Cox adds that the wealthiest of the 1% (that is, the .01%), make only 19% of their income through their salaries, and make the rest through investment income, which are taxed at different rates, that they pay a disproportionate amount of their incomes to income tax, having paid 40% of the total federal personal income tax in 2006, whereas the 5 Percenters paid 60% . 
noLabel	According to the Weimar Republic 1928 Law on Firearms & Ammunition, firearms acquisition or carrying permits were “only to be granted to persons of undoubted reliability, and — in the case of a firearms carry permit&nbsp;— only if a demonstration of need is set forth.” The Nazis replaced this law with the Weapons Law of March 18, 1938, which was very similar in structure and wording, but relaxed gun control requirements for the general population.	This relaxation included the exemption from regulation of all weapons and ammunition except handguns, the extension of the range of persons exempt from the permit requirement, and the lowering of the age for acquisition of firearms from 20 to 18.
noLabel	Although there are some studies that show that homeschooled students can do well on standardized tests, some of these studies compare voluntary homeschool testing with mandatory public-school testing.	Homeschooled students in the United States are not subject to the testing requirements of the No Child Left Behind Act .
noLabel	A classic "boxer" or stylist (also known as an "out-fighter") seeks to maintain distance between himself and his opponent, fighting with faster, longer range punches, most notably the jab, and gradually wearing his opponent down.	Due to this reliance on weaker punches, out-fighters tend to win by point decisions rather than by knockout, though some out-fighters have notable knockout records.
noLabel	National data indicates that only 10% of Canadian youth are meeting the guideline for screen time of less than 2 hours per day.	As well, although 2/3 of families live close enough for their children to bike or walk to school, only 1/3 report actually walking to school and 80% report never having cycled to school.
noLabel	In his book entitled Last Chance to See, Douglas Adams reported having used a condom to protect a microphone he used to make an underwater recording.	According to one of his traveling companions, this is standard BBC practice when a waterproof microphone is needed but cannot be procured .
noLabel	Australian immigration policy has moved from one extreme to another, from a policy that sought to encourage European immigration and restrict Asian immigration (White Australia policy), to a policy that now gives disproportionate preference to Asian immigration.	Blainey asserts that this preferential treatment of Asian immigrants partly arose from a sense of guilt over the Vietnam War, but also reflected Canberra's misguided view that more trade with Asian countries would come with a larger Asian population.
noLabel	Other observers have suggested that the linkage between proliferation and disarmament may also work the other way, i.e., that the failure to resolve proliferation threats in Iran and North Korea, for instance, will cripple the prospects for disarmament.	No current nuclear weapons state, the argument goes, would seriously consider eliminating its last nuclear weapons without high confidence that other countries would not acquire them.
noLabel	They are known for being residential and for having smaller enrollment, class size, and higher teacher-student ratios than universities; a typical liberal arts college is pictured on the right.	These colleges also encourage a high level of teacher-student interaction at the center of which are classes taught by full-time faculty rather than graduate student teaching assistants (TAs), who do teach classes at some Research I and other universities.
noLabel	These tools, which rely on remote forest monitoring using satellite imagery and other data sources, include the Center for Global Development's FORMA (Forest Monitoring for Action) initiative  and the Group on Earth Observations' Forest Carbon Tracking Portal .	Methodological guidance for forest monitoring was also emphasized at COP-15  The environmental organization Avoided Deforestation Partners leads the campaign for development of REDD through funding from the U.S. government . 
noLabel	Because most major religions are based on sacred scriptures, missionaries focus to enable poor, illiterate citizens to read their respective holy texts.	A country’s ability to read correlates to its success in the world; while literacy does not guarantee economic security, it does allow for an increased flow of communication and a better chance for the financial and technological advancement of the entire nation. 
noLabel	However, in May 2006, After the NYC Dept of Health refused to do DNA testing to conclusively determine the source of infection, the ultra orthodox rabbinate, pushed for the passage of the NYS protocol for the performance of metzitzah b'peh, requiring DNA testing of at least four persons, including the parents, if a baby gets herpes following ritual circumcision that includes oral suctioning of the wound.	It is worth noting that despite the fact that metzitzah is performed exclusively in all circumcisions in chasidic strongholds such as Williamsburg, Monroe, New Square, and Crown Heights, there has never been a case of neonatal herpes reported.
noLabel	Groups and Organizations – A social group is two or more people who identify with and interact with one another .	We carry out much of our daily lives as members of small groups, such as sports teams, and large organizations, such as the businesses where we work .
noLabel	Kay Bailey Hutchison was a bank executive of a failed bank in Texas and met and married her second husband Ray Hutchison who was the chairman of the Texas Republican Party in 1976 but left in 1977 to pursue his gubernatorial campaign .	In 1978, Ray Hutchison lost the nomination to Bill Clements by a lopsided vote of 115,345 (72.8 percent) to 38,268 (24.2 percent).
noLabel	These racist theories put forth on scientific hypothesis were combined with unilineal theories of social progress, which postulated the superiority of the European civilization over the rest of the world.	Furthermore, they frequently made use of the idea of "survival of the fittest", a term coined by Herbert Spencer in 1864, associated with ideas of competition, which were named social Darwinism in the 1940s.
noLabel	In particular, marriage between Koreans and Japanese is seen as undesirable and this can be attributed to the strong anti-Japanese sentiment in Korea.	The term "Kosian", referring to someone who has a Korean father and a non-Korean mother, is considered offensive by some who prefer to identify themselves or their children as Korean .
noLabel	In 1983, the North American industry crashed due to the production of too many badly developed games (quantity over quality), resulting in the fall of the North American industry.	The industry would eventually be revitalized by the release of the Nintendo Entertainment System, which resulted in the home console market being dominated by Japanese companies such as Nintendo, while a professional European computer game industry also began taking shape with companies such as Ocean Software .
noLabel	As Daniel L. Overmeyer writes, in recent years there has been a "new appreciation..of the religious dimensions of Confucianism, both in its ritual activities and in the inward search for an ultimate source of moral order" .	Many Chinese belief systems have concepts of a sacred and sometimes spiritual natural world yet do not always invoke a concept of personal god (with the exception of Heaven worship) . 
noLabel	A number of community wind projects are in development in Ontario but the first project that is likely to obtain a FIT contract and connect to the grid is the Pukwis Community Wind Park .	Pukwis will be unique in that it is a joint Aboriginal/Community wind project that will be majority-owned by the Chippewas of Georgina Island First Nation, with a local renewable energy co-operative (the Pukwis Energy Co-operative) owning the remainder of the project.
noLabel	Major racially structured institutions included slavery, Indian Wars, Native American reservations, segregation, residential schools (for Native Americans), and internment camps .	Formal racial discrimination was largely banned in the mid-20th century, and came to be perceived as socially unacceptable and/or morally repugnant as well, yet racial politics remain a major phenomenon.
noLabel	This means that reserve capacity on a system equal in MW to 20% of added wind could be retired when such wind is added without affecting system security or robustness.	But the precise value is irrelevant since the main value of wind, (in the UK, worth 5 times the capacity credit value) is its fuel and CO2 savings.
noLabel	Evidence from market analysis and biodiversity science indicates that the decline in output from the pharmaceutical sector since the mid-1980s can be attributed to a move away from natural product exploration ("bioprospecting") in favor of genomics and synthetic chemistry; meanwhile, natural products have a long history of supporting significant economic and health innovation .	Marine ecosystems are particularly important, although inappropriate bioprospecting can increase biodiversity loss, as well as violating the laws of the communities and states from which the resources are taken .
noLabel	Early in the morning of November 2, 2002, a female employee of the Camp Courtney officers' club on Okinawa drove up to the Courtney main gate and reported to base security personnel that a Marine Corps major had just attempted to sexually assault her in her car on a deserted road near the back gate of the base.	She identified the Marine as Major Michael Brown and stated that during the assault the major threw her mobile phone into the nearby Tengan River.
noLabel	The growing demand and lack of drinkable water on the planet presents an additional challenge to the future of human health.	Partly, the problem lies in the success of water suppliers to increase supplies, and failure of groups promoting preservation of water resources .
noLabel	In the early 1960s, British films such as Victim (1961), A Taste of Honey (1961), and The Leather Boys (1963) offered a daring social commentary about gender roles and homophobia that violated the Hollywood Production Code, yet the films were still released in America.	The American gay rights, civil rights, and youth movements prompted a reevaluation of the depiction of themes of race, class, gender, and sexuality that had been restricted by the Code. 
noLabel	On April 21, 2010, a dozen environmental organizations called on the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission to investigate possible limitations in the AP1000 reactor design.	These groups appealed to three federal agencies to suspend the licensing process because they claimed containment in the new design is worse than existing reactors . 
noLabel	European Americans (particularly Anglo Americans) were privileged by law in matters of literacy, immigration, voting rights, citizenship, land acquisition, and criminal procedure over periods of time extending from the 17th century to the 1960s.	Many non-Protestant European immigrant groups, particularly American Jews, Irish Americans, Italian Americans, as well as other immigrants from elsewhere, suffered xenophobic exclusion and other forms of discrimination in American society. 
noLabel	By the 1870s, references to "pork" were common in Congress, and the term was further popularized by a 1919 article by Chester Collins Maxey in the National Municipal Review, which reported on certain legislative acts known to members of Congress as "pork barrel bills".	He claimed that the phrase originated in a pre-Civil War practice of giving slaves a barrel of salt pork as a reward and requiring them to compete among themselves to get their share of the handout .
noLabel	The Human Rights Act 1998 applies in Scotland as well as England and Wales, and therefore poses similar challenges to the existing Scottish blasphemy laws as those described above.	Additionally, some legal commentators believe that, owing to the long time since successful prosecution, blasphemy in Scotland is no longer a crime, although blasphemous conduct might still be tried as a breach of the peace . 
noLabel	In the Good Friday service, the traditional Mass rubrics include a prayer that asks God to lift the veil so they [Jews] may be delivered from their darkness.	This prayer has historically been contentious in Judaic-Catholic relations and several groups saw the restoration of the Tridentine Mass as problematic.
noLabel	Istituto Tecnico: it is a technical school originally reserved for those who sought a highly qualified work, but today more and more used as a different route to access university.	Different paths exist whose programmes are mostly decided at national level, but a general basic education is provided to every pupil, similarly to the liceo, but less focused on the Humanities (no philosophy or arts, but more mathematics than in the non-scientific liceo); the main ones are:
noLabel	Even after the Meiji restoration in 1868, when the emperor was placed back in the center of the political bureaucracy, the throne itself had very little power vis-à-vis the Meiji oligarchy.	Actual political power has passed through at least four systems since the Meiji restoration: the Taishō democracy, the militarists, the Occupation of Japan, and postwar democracy.
noLabel	Anabolic steroid users tend to be disillusioned by the portrayal of anabolic steroids as deadly in the media and in politics .	According to one study, AAS users also distrust their physicians and in the sample 56% had not disclosed their AAS use to their physicians .
noLabel	These economists argue that (since the surplus benefit to domestic consumers outweighs the surplus loss of domestic producers) the lower price of foreign subsidized goods is a net positive (as in the standard Ricardian argument) and the source of the "comparative advantage" is irrelevant.	Therefore, any import restriction (even on "dumped goods") makes the domestic society as a whole worse off than it would be with unlimited imports. 
noLabel	Initially in 1940, the administration of this program was given to the Soviet Ministry of Foreign Affairs with Foreign Minister Vyacheslav Molotov as being its first administrator.	Stalin and Molotov tasked the USSR Academy of Sciences to find a science administrator notable for leading the research in nuclear physics.
noLabel	The third level is the individual level, where self-interested concerns over personal fitness by individuals either consciously or subconciously motivate the creation of group formation as a means of security .	Leadership groups' or elites' behaviour that involves efforts to advance their own fitness when they are involved in the mobilization of an ethnic or national group is crucial in the development of the culture of that group .
noLabel	In December 2009, The Times claimed that a document from an unnamed Asian intelligence agency described the use of a neutron source which has no use other than in a nuclear weapon, and claimed the document appeared to be from an office in Iran's Defense Ministry and may have been from around 2007 .	Norman Dombey, professor emeritus of theoretical physics at Sussex University, wrote in that "nothing in the published 'intelligence documents' shows Iran is close to having nuclear weapons" and argued that it is "unlikely that nuclear weapon projects would be distributed among several universities, or weapon parts marketed to research centres.
noLabel	Many commentators concentrate on whether or not wind has any "capacity credit" without defining what they mean by this and its relevance.	Wind does have a capacity credit, using a widely accepted and meaningful definition, equal to about 20% of its rated output (but this figure varies depending on actual circumstances).
noLabel	For example, if two people own a single piece of land as joint tenants then, depending on the law in the jurisdiction, each may have limited recourse for the actions of the other.	For example, one of the owners might sell their interest in the property to a stranger whom the other owner does not particularly like. 
noLabel	In 2008, one of the five FCC Commissioners, Deborah Taylor Tate, stated that online gaming addiction was "one of the top reasons for college drop-outs" .	However, she did not mention a source for the statement nor identify its position in relation to other top reasons .
noLabel	Condoms have also been used to smuggle cocaine, heroin, and other drugs across borders and into prisons by filling the condom with drugs, tying it in a knot and then either swallowing it or inserting it into the rectum.	These methods are very dangerous and potentially lethal; if the condom breaks, the drugs inside become absorbed into the bloodstream and can cause an overdose .
noLabel	There are thousands of Sudanese refugees in Israel, most of them seeking refuge from ongoing military conflicts in their home country of Sudan.	Because Sudan is defined by Israel as a "hostile state"  their official status as refugees is still a highly disputed issue by Israeli authorities, and only several hundred refugees (both Sudanese and Eritrean) have been officially recognized as refugees by the State of Israel. 
noLabel	According to the conservative lobbying organization Family Research Council, studies in the US indicate that age discrepancy between the teenage girls and the men who impregnate them is an important contributing factor.	Teenage girls in relationships with older boys, and in particular with adult men, are more likely to become pregnant than teenage girls in relationships with boys their own age.
noLabel	Technology advances are opening up a huge new market for solar power: the approximately 1.3 billion people around the world who don't have access to grid electricity.	Even though they are typically very poor, these people have to pay far more for lighting than people in rich countries because they use inefficient kerosene lamps.
noLabel	In a 2002 interview with the Globe and Mail, Aga Khan the 49th Imam of the Ismaili Muslims described Canada as "the most successful pluralist society on the face of our globe", citing it as "a model for the world".	He explained that the experience of Canadian governance - its commitment to pluralism and its support for the rich multicultural diversity of its peoples - is something that must be shared and would be of benefit societies in other parts of the world.
noLabel	Mismatching is the term given to the negative effect that affirmative action has when it places a student into a college that is too difficult for him or her.	For example, according to the theory, in the absence of affirmative action, a student will be admitted to a college that matches his or her academic ability and have a good chance of graduating.
noLabel	Human Rights Watch has documented many instances where the Turkish military forcibly evacuated villages, destroying houses and equipment to prevent the return of the inhabitants.	An estimated 3,000 Kurdish villages in Turkey were virtually wiped from the map, representing the displacement of more than 378,000 people .
noLabel	A charitable trust was established, the New College of the Humanities Trust, consisting of Grayling, Gibbs, Batstone, Watson, and Brown .	There is also an 11-member advisory board that includes BBC news presenter Zeinab Badawi; Ian Rumfitt chair of the philosophy department at Birkbeck; William Swainson of Bloomsbury Publishing; John Gordon, founder of IQ2, a global forum for live debate; James Lambert, founder of the charity Into University; Barbara Schwepcke, Founder and CEO of Haus Publishing; and the heads of four independent schools, City of London School for Girls, St Paul's Girls' School, Rugby, and Wellington; and the head of one state school, Walworth Academy .
noLabel	Levelised energy cost (LEC, also commonly abbreviated as LCOE ) is the price at which electricity must be generated from a specific source to break even.	It is an economic assessment of the cost of the energy-generating system including all the costs over its lifetime: initial investment, operations and maintenance, cost of fuel, cost of capital, and is very useful in calculating the costs of generation from different sources. 
noLabel	 Dutch foreign minister Maxime Verhagen has stated that "Israel had, based on military law at sea, the authority to inspect the cargo of the convoy carrying aid supplies for Gaza".	In reaction to questions by members of the Dutch Parliament, he wrote: "The risk of breaking a blockade lies with those who do so, provided that the blockade was declared properly".
noLabel	After arrival of Europeans, Christians in zeal to convert local as per belief in conversion as service of God, have also been seen to fall into frivolous methods since their arrival.	Though by and large there are hardly any reports of law and order disturbance from mobs with Christian beliefs except perhaps in the north eastern region of India . 
noLabel	In 2010 comments the Pope made in an interview with journalist Peter Seewald regarding condom use attracted attention in the media.	In the context of an extended discussion on the help the Church is giving AIDs victims and the need to fight the banalization of sexuality, and in response to the charge that "It is madness to forbid a high-risk population to use condoms", Pope Benedict stated: .
noLabel	Leon Walras, one of the founders of the neoclassical school of economics who helped formulate the general equilibrium theory, argued that free competition could only be realized under conditions of state ownership of natural resources and land.	Additionally, income taxes could be eliminated because the state would receive income to finance public services through owning such resources and enterprises . 
noLabel	Mario Roatta was the commander of the 2nd Italian Army in occupied Yugoslavia and to suppress the mounting resistance led by the Partisans adopted tactics of "summary executions, hostage-taking, reprisals, internments and the burning of houses and villages" .	Ethnic Slovenes from the western part of nowadays Slovenia, who were subjected to Fascist Italianization since the Treaty of Rapallo, experienced increase in Fascist brutality personified by the fate of Lojze Bratuž, a Slovene choirmaster who led several Slovene language church choirs, being tortured and forced to drink petrol and engine oil because he resisted the italianization of Slovenian names and surnames by Fascist Italy, which begun as early as 1926 There was no exception for first names. 
noLabel	A critical factor in design of compressed-air storage systems is the heat evolved during compression; a large amount of heat is given off when gases are compressed, and subsequent expansion requires the gas to resorb this heat.	In spite of the large cyclic efficiency loss in simple schemes, compressed air storage has still been applied in electrical grid applications, where low-cost off-peak baseload energy can be stored for later release during peaks.
noLabel	Military detractors of the draft claimed that shortening the service to six months, which was necessary to accommodate a constant number of conscripts in a shrinking army, had made conscription worthless because conscripts receive too little training.	Military proponents countered that some service is better than none at all, bringing citizens in contact with their military and thereby countering above-mentioned fears of a disconnection between military and society. 
noLabel	Some experts have nonetheless argued that the best option at this stage for Greece is to engineer an “orderly default” on Greece’s public debt which would allow Athens to withdraw simultaneously from the eurozone and reintroduce a national currency, such as its historical drachma, at a debased rate (essentially, coining money).	Economists who favor this approach to solve the Greek debt crisis typically argue that a delay in organising an orderly default would wind up hurting EU lenders and neighboring European countries even more . 
noLabel	Indians used a variety of birth control methods since ancient times, including a potion made of powdered palm leaf and red chalk, as well as vaginal suppositories made of honey, ghee, rock salt or the seeds of palasa tree.	A variety of birth control prescriptions, mainly made up of herbs and other plants, are listed in the 12th century Ratirahasya ("Secret of Love") and the Anangaranga ("The Stage of the God of Love") .
noLabel	In fact, the Council did not advocate "progressive" changes in these areas; for example, they still condemned abortion as an unspeakable crime.	Pope John Paul II continued to declare that contraception, abortion, and homosexual acts were gravely sinful, and, with Joseph Ratzinger (future Pope Benedict XVI), opposed Liberation theology. 
noLabel	The (CERO) is the organization that rates video games and PC games (except dating sim, visual novel, and eroge) in Japan with levels of rating that informs the customer of the nature of the product and for what age group it is suitable.	It was established on July 2002 as a branch of Computer Entertainment Supplier's Association, and became an officially recognized non-profit organization in 2003.
noLabel	He also rejected all claims of fraud and the Republican Party's statistical analysis, concluding that the expert testimony of the Republican party was "not helpful" and that the proportional reduction theory was not supported under any law in the state.	Striking another blow against Rossi's court case, he stated that "the court is more inclined to believe that Gregoire would have prevailed under statistical analysis theory," rejecting the Rossi campaign's claim that improperly cast ballots led to Gregoire's victory . 
noLabel	Technological solutions to mitigate large scale wind energy type intermittency exist such as increased interconnection (the European super grid), Demand response, load management, diesel generators (in National Grid), Frequency Response / National Grid Reserve Service type schemes, and use of existing power stations on standby.	Studies by academics and grid operators indicate that the cost of compensating for intermittency is expected to be high at levels of penetration above the low levels currently in use today Large, distributed power grids are better able to deal with high levels of penetration than small, isolated grids.
noLabel	In recent decades in many countries in the world, the criminal justice system has taken an increasing interest in preventing violence before it occurs.	For instance, much of community and problem-oriented policing aims to reduce crime and violence by altering the conditions that foster it - and not to increase the number of arrests.
noLabel	When Philip created the league of the Greeks on the pretext of unifying Greece against Persia, the Spartans chose not to join&mdash;they had no interest in joining a pan-Greek expedition if it was not under Spartan leadership.	Thus, upon the conquest of Persia, Alexander the Great sent to Athens 300 suits of Persian armour with the following inscription "Alexander, son of Philip, and all the Greeks except the Spartans, give these offerings taken from the foreigners who live in Asia [emphasis added]". 
noLabel	Alternative education, also known as non-traditional education or educational alternative, is a broad term that may be used to refer to all forms of education outside of traditional education (for all age groups and levels of education).	This may include not only forms of education designed for students with special needs (ranging from teenage pregnancy to intellectual disability), but also forms of education designed for a general audience and employing alternative educational philosophies and methods. 
noLabel	In the United States, the championship game of the NFL, the Super Bowl, has become one of the most watched television broadcasts of the year.	Super Bowl Sunday is a de facto national holiday in America; the viewership being so great that in 2007 advertising space was reported as being sold at $2.6m for a 30 second slot.
noLabel	The Refugee Council said that the law would “"potentially affect the lives and wellbeing of thousands of asylum applicants in the UK forcing them into extreme poverty and making it more difficult to pursue their asylum application".	This aspect of the law was challenged and, in 2004, the European Court held that it breached Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights and the policy was dropped . 
noLabel	It does not require assimilation and it does not require persons to give up all of their culture, but it may require to forgo some aspects of their culture which are inconsistent with the laws and values of the society.	In tolerant and open societies, members of minority groups can often use social integration to gain full access to the opportunities, rights and services available to the members of the mainstream of society. 
noLabel	It was, however, ruled unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of Canada as unemployment was judged to be an insurance matter falling under provincial responsibility.	After a constitutional amendment was agreed to by the provinces, a reference to "Unemployment Insurance" was added to the matters falling under federal authority under the Constitution Act, 1867, and the first Canadian system was adopted in 1940.
noLabel	Two conservative Republican congressmen, Joe Barton of Dallas (284,135 or 13.9 percent) and Jack Fields of Houston (277,560, or 13.6 percent) split pro-life voters, but even their combined totals, 561,693, would have placed neither in the runoff.	A fifth candidate, Democrat Richard W. Fisher, son-in-law of Republican former U.S. Representative James M. Collins, polled 165,564 votes (8.1 percent); the remaining candidates had about 6 percent combined.
noLabel	Generally, a defense may refer to attempts to defuse the logical problem of evil by showing that there is no logical incompatibility between the existence of evil and the existence of God.	A defense need not argue that this is a probable or plausible explanation, only that the explanation is logically possible, for if on some logically possible explanation God and evil are logically compatible, then whatever the case with respect to that explanation's being true or not, God and evil are logically compatible . 
noLabel	In the early 1990s, sociologist Sara Diamond and journalist Frederick Clarkson defined dominionism as a movement that, while including Dominion Theology and Christian Reconstructionism as subsets, is much broader in scope, extending to much of the Christian Right .	Beginning in 2004 with essayist Katherine Yurica, a group of authors including journalist Chris Hedges Marion Maddox, James Rudin, Sam Harris, and the group TheocracyWatch began applying the term to a broader spectrum of people than have sociologists such as Diamond. 
noLabel	The 2008 Pig Book identified 10,610 projects in the 11 appropriations bills that constitute the discretionary portion of the federal budget for fiscal 2008, costing taxpayers $17.2 billion .	Related publications include Prime Cuts, a list of recommendations for eliminating waste in the federal government and Porker of the Month, a monthly press release. 
noLabel	In the 1990s, with the declassification of Soviet intelligence materials, which showed the extent and the type of the information obtained by the Soviets from US sources, a heated debate ensued in Russia and abroad as to the relative importance of espionage, as opposed to the Soviet scientists' own efforts, in the making of the Soviet bomb.	The vast majority of scholars agree that whereas the Soviet atomic project was first and foremost a product of local expertise and scientific talent, it is clear that espionage efforts contributed to the project in various ways and most certainly shortened the time needed to develop the atomic bomb. 
noLabel	Smart Growth principles are directed at developing sustainable communities that are good places to live, to do business, to work, and to raise families.	Some of the fundamental aims for the benefits of residents and the communities are to increase family income and wealth, improving access to quality education, fostering livable, safe and healthy places, stimulating economic activity (both locally and regionally), and developing, preserving and investing in physical resources. 
noLabel	As Rabbinic injunctions regarding health are taken quite seriously- more so than even religious law- metzitzah came to be regarded as an essential part of the brit milah ceremony.	In general, however, Rabbinic statements about medicine and health have long been regarded as non-binding when modern medical science contradicts them.
noLabel	From an early age parents push their only child to educational extremes as they cater to their whims; "though many of these precocious kids can recite the English alphabet or read newspapers in traditional Chinese characters by the time they're 10, their parents often still perform basic tasks for them: fixing their hair, tying their shoes, wiping their bottoms.	" Boarding school, private English lessons, music lessons and an additional range of extracurricular activities are the normal fare though after tough competition only two percent of the Little Emperors will be able to study at a university . 
noLabel	"Discrimination arising from disability" was a newly formulated test introduced after the House of Lords decision in Lewisham LBC v Malcolm and EHRC was felt to have shifted the balance of protection too far away from disabled people .	Section 15 Equality Act 2010 creates a broad protection against being treated unfavourably "because of something arising in consequence of" the person's disability, but subject to the employer having an 'objective justification' defence if it shows its action was a legitimate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
noLabel	Initial fears that the program would encourage families to stay at home rather than work to collect benefits have proven to be unfounded.	Instead, there is less excuse for neglectful behavior as, for example, children stopped begging on the streets instead of going to school because it could result in suspension from the program .
noLabel	On 7 July 2011, MIT linguistics professor Noam Chomsky, wrote "Today the U.S. and Israel are vigorously seeking to block the flotilla.	U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton virtually authorized violence, stating that 'Israelis have the right to defend themselves' if flotillas 'try to provoke action by entering into Israeli waters'&nbsp;– that is, the territorial waters of Gaza, as if Gaza belonged to Israel.
noLabel	It also establishes an agenda of action for putting an end to sex-based discrimination for which states ratifying the Convention are required to enshrine gender equality into their domestic legislation, repeal all discriminatory provisions in their laws, and enact new provisions to guard against discrimination against women.	They must also establish tribunals and public institutions to guarantee women effective protection against discrimination, and take steps to eliminate all forms of discrimination practiced against women by individuals, organizations, and enterprises .
noLabel	They argued "..that the routine releases were a severe threat to public health and could cause tens of thousands of deaths from cancer each year.	" Exchange of views about radiation risks caused uneasiness about nuclear power, especially among those unable to evaluate the conflicting claims . 
noLabel	According to the report, after mandatory random testing began in 2004, HGH became the substance of choice among players, as it was not then detectable in tests .	Also, it was noted that at least one player from each of the thirty Major League Baseball teams was involved in the alleged violations .
noLabel	All of the council’s decisions are nowadays determined by the interests of the Muslim countries or powerful states such as China or Russia that know how to surround themselves with allies.	"The secretary-general of the OIC, Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu, spoke of helping a co-ordinated strategy made by the Ummah, the diaspora of Muslims living in non-Muslim countries, to combat a campaign of defamaing Islam in the West .
noLabel	had to get on board the ship as soon as it was tied up and before they had the chance to go ashore.	This would often mean climbing a rope ladder to board the ship whilst it was in the lock, waiting to move into the dock area”. 
noLabel	Developmental neurobiologists suspect that the establishment of thalamocortical connections (at about 26 weeks) may be critical to fetal perception of pain .	However, legislation has been proposed by anti-abortion advocates requiring abortion providers to tell a woman that the fetus may feel pain during an abortion procedure . 
noLabel	Many health care workers are also not available, in part due to lack of training by governments and in part due to the wooing of these workers by foreign medical organisations where there is a need for medical professionals .	This is done largely through immigration laws that encourage recruitment in professional fields (special skill categories) like doctors and nurses in countries like Australia, Canada, and the U.S.
noLabel	Over time, as real wages rose, parents became able to afford to send their children to school instead of work and as a result child labour declined, both before and after legislation .	Austrian school economist Murray Rothbard said that British and American children of the pre- and post-Industrial Revolution lived and suffered in infinitely worse conditions where jobs were not available for them and went "voluntarily and gladly" to work in factories . 
noLabel	" The lawyers succeeded in getting the government to block the Facebook group itself individually on May 18, but the Islamic lawyers requested a full block of the entirety of the Facebook site, because the organization had permitted the posting of the particular group on its site .	They argued that unless the entire Facebook website were blocked, it would be difficult to stop the protest movement campaign on the site .
noLabel	According to the estimates of Reporters Without Borders, India ranks 120th worldwide in press freedom index (press freedom index for India is 39.33 for 2007) .	The Indian Constitution, while not mentioning the word "press", provides for "the right to freedom of speech and expression" (Article 19(1) a).
noLabel	Since the spring of 1945 the Poles had been forcefully expelling the remaining German population in these provinces in a program of ethnic cleansing.	When the Allies met in Potsdam on 17 July 1945 at the Potsdam Conference, a chaotic refugee situation faced the occupying powers.
noLabel	Louisiana is one of 18 states that run separate elections for Governor and Lieutenant Governor, a process that has resulted in Governor-Lieutenant Governor pairs from different parties and/or widely differing political ideologies.	For example, current Governor Bobby Jindal is a Republican, while former Lieutenant Governor Mitch Landrieu (who has since been elected as Mayor of New Orleans) is a Democrat. 
noLabel	The KIDS COUNT initiative collects annual data on the well being of children all round the US and publishes state-specific reports as well as state comparisons.	The JDAI focuses on providing a bright and healthy future as adults for children involved in the juvenile justice system . 
noLabel	Beyond the scientifically verifiable harm to the environment, some assert the moral right of other species to simply exist rather than become extinct.	Environmental author Jeremy Rifkin has said that "our burgeoning population and urban way of life have been purchased at the expense of vast ecosystems and habitats..
noLabel	A different kind of critique of the freedom to propagate religion has come from non-Abrahamic traditions such as the African and Indian.	African scholar Makau Mutua criticizes religious evangelism on the ground of cultural annihilation by what he calls "proselytizing universalist faiths": .
noLabel	The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was enacted in 1990 to prohibit the discrimination of individuals with disabilities in the public and private sectors.	The ADA outlaws discrimination against a person with a disability in five spheres: employment, public services, transportation, public accommodations, and telecommunications.
noLabel	He comes across less like a cyclist, more like a psychopath.And this may not be the end of the story for Armstrong.	The US attorney's office ΓÇô which dropped an investigation into his alleged doping earlier this year ΓÇô will very likely take an interest in the Usada report, particularly where it alleges that Armstrong perjured himself in the course of making seven sworn legal statements to a Dallas court in 2005.Armstrong, like most bullies, is also a coward.
noLabel	John William Draper and Andrew Dickson White, authors of the conflict thesis, have argued that when a religion offers a complete set of answers to the problems of purpose, morality, origins, or science, it often discourages exploration of those areas by suppressing curiosity, denies its followers a broader perspective, and can prevent social, moral and scientific progress.	Examples of scientific suppression by the Roman Catholic Church include the trial of Galileo for arguing that the Earth revolves around the Sun, and the execution of scientist and philosopher Giordano Bruno. 
noLabel	However, as Russia began to develop in the mid 1990’s, large numbers of individuals fearing persecution for various reasons in the Middle East, Africa, and Asia viewed Russia as a safe place to migrate.	In response, in 1997, Russia amended and replaced the 1993 Law on Refugees to better address those individuals who have traveled to Russia in need of international protection.
noLabel	During the past decades ethnic minorities have experienced higher growth rates than the majority Han population, because they are not under the one-child policy.	Their proportion of the population in China has grown from 6.1% in 1953, to 8.04% in 1990, 8.41% in 2000 and 8.49% in 2010. 
noLabel	Another family of arguments (see the section on Thomson, below) relates to bodily rights—the question of whether the woman’s bodily rights justify abortion even if the embryo has a right to life.	A negative answer would support claim (2) in the central pro-life argument, while an affirmative answer would support claim (2) in the central pro-choice argument.
noLabel	In 1999, Jeffrey Shockey joined a lobbyist firm, Copeland, Lowery, Jacquez, Denton & Shockey after having worked for Representative Jerry Lewis for eight years as a Congressional staffer in Capitol Hill.	After working for the lobbyist firm for six years, Shockey returned to work for Lewis, after Lewis gained the Appropriations Committee chairmanship in the House of Representatives .
noLabel	Although many of the legal principles governing intellectual property have evolved over centuries, it was not until the 19th century that the term intellectual property began to be used, and not until the late 20th century that it became commonplace in the majority of the world .	The British Statute of Anne 1710 and the Statute of Monopolies 1623 are now seen as the origins of copyright and patent law respectively .
noLabel	The NRA's policy is that it will endorse any incumbent who supports its positions, even if the challenger supports them as well, as incumbents tend to hold more political power.	For example, in the 2006 Senate Elections the NRA endorsed Rick Santorum over Bob Casey, Jr. even though they both had an "A" rating from the NRA Political Victory Fund, because of Santorum's history of support for the NRA's interests in Congress .
noLabel	In many African and South American countries, AIDS and HIV are huge problems but people continue to have sex without condoms in order to follow the teachings of the Catholic Church.	In this debate, the proposition believe that the Catholic Church's position of forbidding barrier methods of contraception, such as condoms, is justified.
noLabel	 The U.S. state of California enacted Code of Civil Procedure § 425.16 in 1992, a statute intended to frustrate SLAPPs by providing a quick and inexpensive defense .	It provides for a special motion that a defendant can file at the outset of a lawsuit to strike a complaint when it arises from conduct that falls within the rights of petition or free speech.
noLabel	Other than recreational drug use, it can be used to construct identity and a development of self-image by associating it with personal experiences connected with smoking.	The rise of the modern anti-smoking movement in the late 19th century did more than create awareness of the hazards of smoking; it provoked reactions of smokers against what was, and often still is, perceived as an assault on personal freedom and has created an identity among smokers as rebels or outcasts, apart from non-smokers: . 
noLabel	Justice Antonin Scalia wondered if the law with its vague definition of "violence" could also be applied to Grimm's Fairy Tales .	To the ESA and other trade groups, the Justices suggested that California and other states do have precedence to protect minors from certain forms of violence, though under narrower terms than the California law .
noLabel	Testifying at a January 29, 2008 House Judiciary Committee hearing on reform of the state secrets privilege, EFF attorney Kevin Bankston contended that the administration's interpretation of the privilege was overly broad, and failed to properly consider the evidentiary procedures provided for by Section 1806(f) of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act .	However, the case was dismissed on June 3, 2009, citing retroactive legislation (section 802 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act) stating that  .
noLabel	Right-wing critics Morton and Knopff have raised several concerns about the Charter, notably by alleging that the federal government has used it to limit provincial powers by allying with various rights claimants and interest groups.	In their book The Charter Revolution & the Court Party, Morton and Knopff express their suspicions of this alliance in detail, accusing the Trudeau and Chrétien governments of funding litigious groups.
noLabel	Young women and girls are kidnapped from their homes and sold to gangs of women traffickers that displace the women by great distances .	In order to ensure that the women do not run away, the men who purchase them do not allow the women to leave the house .
noLabel	The term digital rights describes the permissions of individuals legitimately to perform actions involving the use of a computer, any electronic device, or a communications network.	The term is particularly related to the protection and realization of existing rights, such as the right to privacy or freedom of expression (see freedom of information), in the context of new digital technologies, especially the Internet .
noLabel	In Culture and Imperialism, the sequel to Orientalism, Said argues that while the formal "age of empire" ended after World War II, imperialism has left a cultural legacy in the previously-colonized civilizations that remains today.	He furthermore argues that this legacy of imperialism or cultural imperialism is still very influential in international systems of power .
noLabel	After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 and the resultant end of the Cold War, the threat of a major nuclear war between the two nuclear superpowers was generally thought to have declined.	Since then, concern over nuclear weapons has shifted to the prevention of localized nuclear conflicts resulting from nuclear proliferation, and the threat of nuclear terrorism.
noLabel	The multiple-arch dam consists of a number of single-arch dams with concrete buttresses as the supporting abutments, as for example the Daniel-Johnson Dam, Québec, Canada.	The multiple-arch dam does not require as many buttresses as the hollow gravity type, but requires good rock foundation because the buttress loads are heavy.
noLabel	In a November, 2009 report, the IAEA stated that its investigation had been stymied due to Syria's failure to cooperate .	The following February, under the new leadership of Yukiya Amano, the IAEA stated that "The presence of such [uranium] particles points to the possibility of nuclear-related activities at the site and adds to questions concerning the nature of the destroyed building..Syria has yet to provide a satisfactory explanation for the origin and presence of these particles" .
noLabel	Just as sense has immediate perception of the material so has reason immediate perception of the immaterial, while the understanding brings these perceptions to a person's consciousness and unites them to one another .	God's existence, then, cannot be proven (Jacobi, like Immanuel Kant, rejected the absolute value of the principle of causality), it must be felt by the mind. 
noLabel	However, if by its essential nature, free will is not predetermined, then the effect of its will can never be perfectly predicted by anyone, regardless of intelligence and knowledge.	Although knowledge of the options presented to that will, combined with perfect-infinite intelligence, could be said to provide God with omniscience if omniscience is defined as knowledge or understanding of all that is. 
noLabel	Boiling water reactors (BWR) and Advanced Boiling Water Reactors can use a combination of control rods and the speed of recirculation water flow to quickly reduce their power level down to under 60% of rated power, making them useful for overnight load-following.	In markets such as Chicago, Illinois where half of the local utility's fleet is BWRs, it is common to load-follow (although less economic to do so).
noLabel	Likewise, the Noerr-Pennington doctrine is a rule of law that often prohibits the application of antitrust law to statements made by competitors before public bodies: a monopolist may freely go before the city council and encourage the denial of its competitor's building permit without being subject to Sherman Act liability.	Increasingly, this doctrine has been applied to litigation outside the antitrust context, including state tort suits for intentional interference with business relations and SLAPP Suits. 
noLabel	In addition to the general debates supporting or opposing war, or particular wars, and the alleged connection of the military to homophobia, sexism, racism, militarism, and imperialism, there are debates about the recruitment process itself.	These debates, listed below, do not include Recruiter Improprieties which are specifically defined in military regulations and orders, or crimes such as sexual contact with minors, since both the military as well as counter-recruiters are strongly opposed to them. 
noLabel	The law, which tightens voting restrictions, including requiring photo ID at the polls, is deemed by civil rights groups to the most draconian yet.	In addition to requiring all voters to have a photo ID, North Carolina's law would curtail early voting by a week, would eliminate same day voter registration during early voting, and would place restrictions on the counting of provisional ballots.
noLabel	The efforts made to identify and document the arriving asylum seeker were vital to the end of the process where an application was refused.	Without proof of identity and nationality it was impossible to document the person so as to ensure that they could be removed.
noLabel	Feminist economics argue that gender and race must be considered in economic analysis because despite their claim that no classification of people can ever capture every element at work, by explicitly considering gender, race, class, and caste economic models may be improved .	Matthaei  describe the importance of gender and racial-ethnic factors to the field of economics in the following passage: "Not only did gender and racial-ethnic differences and inequality precede capitalism, they have been built into it in key ways.
noLabel	In an interview with Computer and Video Games, Ed Boon stated, "[..] since the beginning, one of the things that's separated us from other fighting games is the crazy moves we've put in it, like fireballs and all the magic moves, so to speak.	" Another of the game's innovations was the Fatality, a finishing move executed against a beaten opponent to kill them in a gruesome fashion . 
noLabel	While the bulk of lobbying happens by business and professional interests who hire paid professionals, some lobbyists represent non-profits pro-bono for issues in which they are personally interested.	Pro bono publico clients offer activities to meet and socialize with local legislators on neutral territory like fundraisers and awards ceremonies.
noLabel	Full employment of the unemployed workforce, all focused toward the goal of developing more environmentally efficient methods for production and consumption might provide a more significant and lasting cumulative environmental benefit and reduced resource consumption .	If so the future economy and workforce would benefit from the resultant structural increases in the sustainable level of GDP growth. 
noLabel	Damage to forests and other aspects of nature could halve living standards for the world's poor and reduce global GDP by about 7% by 2050, a report concluded at the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) meeting in Bonn .	Historically, utilization of forest products, including timber and fuel wood, has played a key role in human societies, comparable to the roles of water and cultivable land.
noLabel	The King was above public criticism and statements critical of the government were forbidden, according to the English Court of the Star Chamber.	Truth was not a defense to seditious libel because the goal was to prevent and punish all condemnation of the government. 
noLabel	However, 44% believed that one was abstinent after genital touching and 33% believed one could have oral sex and still remain abstinent.	Of anal and vaginal sex, 14% believed you could engage in the former and 12% said you could participate in the latter while still remaining abstinent .
noLabel	As of 2004 she was a member of the National Academy of Science Panel, which studied the design of non-market accounts.	She has been a board member of the Foundation for Child Development since 2000, a member of the National Advisory Commission of Child Care and Early Education as well as the National Organization for Women Legal Defense and Education Fund since 2004.
noLabel	Oman retains a number of independent private coeducational day schools of international renown and a majority of which are private educational grammar establishments offering Classics beyond Latin and Greek to include the ancient literary studies of Sanskrit, Hebrew and Arabic.	Notable ones include the American British Academy, the British School Muscat, the Indian School Al Ghubra and The Sultan's School (also see List of Private Schools in Oman).
noLabel	Another example is the Tianhuangping Pumped-Storage Hydro Plant in China, which has a reservoir capacity of eight million cubic meters (2.1 billion U.S. gallons or the volume of water over Niagara Falls in 25 minutes) with a vertical distance of 600 m (1970&nbsp;feet).	The reservoir can provide about 13 GW·h of stored gravitational potential energy (convertible to electricity at about 80% efficiency), or about 2% of China's daily electricity consumption . 
noLabel	and try to influence the political system to fulfill corporate interests, which may or may not be shared by the citizenry.	The concessions sought by these multinational corporations in turn collide with the free trade idea that subsidies should not be used to prop up corporations—in other words, subsidizing local corporations invites accusations of Protectionism by free trade proponents, while concessions to foreign corporations are portrayed as mere rational incentives.
noLabel	In February 2008, Jonathan Faull, the head of the EU's Commission of Home Affairs, complained about the US bilateral policy concerning PNR .	The US had signed in February 2008 a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with the Czech Republic in exchange of a VISA waiver scheme, without concerting before with Brussels .
noLabel	The Accra Agenda for Action sets out a list of commitments for its signatories, building on those already agreed in the Paris Declaration.	It asks the OECD’s Working Party on Aid Effectiveness to continue monitoring progress on implementing the Paris Declaration and the Accra Agenda for Action and to report back to the Fourth High Level Forum on Aid Effectiveness in December 2011. 
noLabel	The number of criminal cases opened against illegal immigrants is relatively low in number, as regards cases involving crimes committed against the general population where they live.	However, according to the research department of the Israel Police and Israel's foreign immigrants' crime is characterized by predominantly sectoral internal crime, in which a gun is not reported, and illegal immigrants generally have no interest in complaining to the police .
noLabel	Dawkins expresses concern about increasing religious influence in British schools with over 7,000 faith schools already and the government encouraging more, so over half of the new City Academies are expected to be sponsored by religious organizations.	He says that the most worrying development is a new wave of private Evangelical schools that have adopted the American Baptist Accelerated Christian Education curriculum, and as an example calls on Phoenix Academy in London .
noLabel	Eighty percent of the workforce is organised in trade-unions which also have the right to elect two representatives to the board in all Swedish companies with more than 25 employees.	Sweden has a relatively high amount of sick leave per worker in OECD: the average worker loses 24 days due to sickness .
noLabel	Under theocracy, divine status (as the Pharaoh's, Roman divus and mandate of heaven as in imperial China) can render earthly authority under divine law, which is theoretically unchallengeable.	On the other hand, it can take the form of supreme divine authority above the state's, granting a tool for political influence to a priesthood that voices and interprets such authority.
noLabel	Although Gregoire was sworn in as Governor of Washington on January 12, 2005, Rossi did not formally concede and called for a re-vote over concerns about the integrity of the election.	The Republican Party filed a lawsuit in Chelan County Superior Court contesting the election, but the trial judge ruled against it, citing lack of evidence of deliberate electoral sabotage .
noLabel	Until shortly after World War I, most workers were immigrants from Europe, their immediate descendants, or African Americans who were mostly slaves taken from Africa, or slave descendants .	Beginning in the late 20th century, many Latin Americans immigrated, followed by large numbers of Asians after the removal of nation-origin based immigration quotas .
noLabel	Some wind advocates have argue that in the pan-European case back up costs are quite low, resulting in overall wind energy costs about the same as present day power .	However, such claim are generally considered too optimistic, except possibly for some marginal increases that, in particular circumstances, may take advantage of the existing infrastructure. 
noLabel	In some cases, minorities are discriminated against simply because it is inefficient to make a concerted effort at a fair allocation.	For example, in countries where minorities make up a very small part of the population, or are on average less educated than the population average, there is rarely an attempt to focus on employment of minorities. 
noLabel	Bivens did not release specifics of the drug-testing program, such as identifying what substances would be banned and how the testing would be conducted.	She said the Tour would spend the next six to nine months developing a policy in conjunction with the National Center for Drug Free Sport, Inc., which operates and manages drug-testing programs for the N.C.A.A.
noLabel	This led to the possibility of a split national championship, as the Coaches Poll is contractually obligated to vote its national championship to the winner of the BCS title game.	Ultimately, Alabama defeated LSU 21-0, and hours later was a near-unanimous choice as national champion, taking all but five first-place votes in the AP Poll .
noLabel	Also during this time period, the MUD genre that had been spawned by MUD1 in 1978 was undergoing a tremendous expansion phase due to the release and spread of LPMud (1989) and DikuMUD (1991).	Soon, driven by the mainstream adoption of the Internet, these parallel trends merged in the popularization of graphical MUDs, which would soon become known as massively multiplayer online role-playing games or MMORPGs, beginning with games like Meridian 59 (1995), Ultima Online (1997) and EverQuest (1999) and leading to modern phenomena such as Final Fantasy XI (2003), EVE online (2003) and World of Warcraft (2004). 
noLabel	There are high levels of medical suspicion throughout Africa, and there is evidence that such distrust may have a significant impact on the use of medical services .	The distrust of modern medicine is sometimes linked to theories of a "Western Plot" of mass sterilization or population reduction, perhaps a consequence of several high profile incidents involving Western medical practitioners .
noLabel	Several activists in exile including Thee Lay Thee Anyeint members, have returned to Burma after President Thein Sein’s offer to expatriates to return home to work for national development .	In an address to the United Nations Security Council in 22 September 2011, Burma's Foreign Minister Wanna Maung Lwin confirmed the release of prisoners in near future .
noLabel	The defiance of Papal authority proved contagious, and in 1533, when Henry VIII of England was excommunicated for his divorce and remarriage to Anne Boleyn, he promptly established a state church with bishops appointed by the crown.	This was not without internal opposition, and Thomas More, who had been his Lord Chancellor, was executed in 1535 for opposition to Henry. 
noLabel	In a 2002 interview with the Globe and Mail', Karīm al-Hussainī the 49th Aga Khan of the Ismaili Muslims described Canada as "the most successful pluralist society on the face of our globe", citing it as "a model for the world.	" He explained that the experience of Canadian governance - its commitment to pluralism and its support for the rich multicultural diversity of its peoples - is something that must be shared and would be of benefit to all societies in other parts of the world .
noLabel	In the 2005-06 academic year at York University, the York Federation of Students, a federation representing ten of the university's student unions, clashed with a Canadian Forces recruiter forcibly removing the recruiter and the kiosk from the Student Center.	York University maintains that the Canadian Forces have the same right to recruit as any other employer participating in career fairs on campus . 
noLabel	In a followup study to Collier, Dalgaard finds that regardless of policies and utility, aid seems to be less efficient per dollar in the tropics.	He states that aid dollars are likely to be just as effective anywhere, so there must be a mitigating externality that is not being accounted for .
noLabel	and furthermore that greater overall "religiosity" in a region also correlates positively with "individual life satisfaction" on both the religious and non-religious population.	The reverse was also found to be true: a large "atheist" (non-religious) population "has negative spillover effects" for both the religious and non-religious members of the population .
noLabel	The European 100m record-holder [Dwain Chambers] has tested positive for THG but denies taking it wilfully, and a lot more positives are expected... "A positive drugs test is always treated as a day of shame for the sport... [but] the exact opposite is true...	The forces of darkness triumph when an athlete cheats and nobody finds out... Track and field deserves a round of applause...
noLabel	Note: Texas Christian University will switch from the Mountain West Conference to the Big 12 Conference and Temple University will switch from the Mid-American Conference to the Big East on July 1, 2012 increasing the number of BCS AQ schools by 2 to 69 schools.	Boise State University (Mountain West), San Diego State University (Mountain West), Southern Methodist University (Conference USA), the University of Houston (Conference USA), and the University of Central Florida (Conference USA) will all join the Big East Conference on July 1, 2013 increasing the number of BCS schools by 5 to 74 schools.
noLabel	While most elections in the Republic of Ireland uses the single transferable vote (STV), in single-winner contests this reduces to IRV .	This is the case in all Presidential elections and Seanad panel by-elections, and most Dáil by-elections In the rare event of multiple simultaneous vacancies in a single Dáil constituency, a single STV by-election may be held; for Seanad panels, multiple IRV by-elections are held .
noLabel	The Challenger 1 accelerated its course in an attempt to allow journalists on board to broadcast their photos of the ongoing raid .	The ship was intercepted by two Israeli speedboats and a helicopter, and carried out evasion tactics, forcing the Israelis to pursue it for a considerable distance.
noLabel	Taxation in the United States is a complex system which may involve payment to at least four different levels of government and many methods of taxation.	Taxes are levied by the federal government, by the state governments, and often by local governments, which may include counties, municipalities, township, school districts, and other special-purpose districts, which include fire, utility, and transit districts. 
noLabel	Emigration and immigration are sometimes mandatory in a contract of employment: religious missionaries, and employees of transnational corporations, international non-governmental organizations and the diplomatic service expect, by definition, to work 'overseas'.	They are often referred to as 'expatriates', and their conditions of employment are typically equal to or better than those applying in the host country (for similar work). 
noLabel	The officials were told there were 2.3 million Jews in the General Government, 850,000 in Hungary, 1.1 million in the other occupied countries, and up to 5 million in the USSR, although 2 million of these were in areas still under Soviet control — a total of about 6.5 million.	These would all be transported by train to extermination camps (Vernichtungslager) in Poland, where almost all of them would be gassed at once.
noLabel	Various countries have different standings on the types of materials that they as legal bodies permit their citizens to have access to and disseminate among their locale populations.	The set of these countries permissible content vary widely accordingly with some having extreme punishment up to and including execution for members who violate their restrictions, as in the case of Iran where the current laws against pornography now include death sentences for those convicted of producing pornography . 
noLabel	Although the per-capita number of smokers decreased, the average number of cigarettes consumed per person per day increased from 22 in 1954 to 30 in 1978.	This paradoxical event suggests that those who quit smoked less, while those who continued to smoke moved to smoke more light cigarettes .
noLabel	According to Gudykunst and Kim, total assimilation, what they call "the process of adaptation," is the ultimate goal and failure to do so makes the newcomer "inappropriate" in their thinking, feeling, and "functional operation."	Gudykunst and Kim (2003) simply state that failure to conform is a failure of the newcomer to be "fit to live in the company of others" (p.&nbsp;358).
noLabel	In 2006, Boise State became the second BCS Buster after a 12–0 regular season and subsequent Fiesta Bowl berth against the Oklahoma Sooners.	The Broncos won 43–42 in overtime in what many fans, pundits and others consider to be one of the best Bowl games in history. 
noLabel	Nationally syndicated talk radio host Tom Martino prevailed in an anti-SLAPP motion after he was sued for libel by a watercraft retailer.	The case received national attention for its suggestion that no one reasonably expects objective facts from a typical talk show host .
noLabel	Spying has sometimes been considered a gentlemanly pursuit, with recruiting focused on military officers, or at least on persons of the class from whom officers are recruited.	However, the demand for male soldiers, an increase in women's rights, and the tactical advantages of female spies led the Special Operations Executive (SOE) to set aside any lingering Victorian Era prejudices and begin employing them in April 1942.
noLabel	Gambling is also a major international commercial activity, with the legal gambling market totaling an estimated $335 billion in 2009 .	In other forms, gambling can be conducted with materials which have a value, but aren't real money; for example, games like Pogs or Magic: The Gathering.
noLabel	Noonan v. Staples is sometimes cited as precedent that truth is not always a defense to libel, but the case is actually not valid precedent on that issue because Staples did not argue First Amendment protection for its statements .	The courts often decide cases on issues not argued by the parties, and the court assumed in this case that the Massachusetts law was constitutional under the First Amendment. 
noLabel	Ideological expansionist justification (Manifest Destiny) included stereotyped perceptions of all Native Americans as "merciless Indian savages" (as described in the United States Declaration of Independence) despite successful American efforts at civilization as proven with the Cherokee, Chickasaw, Creek, and Choctaw.	An egregious attempt occurred with the California gold rush, the first two years of which saw the deaths of thousands of Native Americans.
noLabel	The next breakthrough was discovered and developed by Sakharov and Yakov Zel'dovich, that of using the X-rays from the fission bomb to compress the secondary before fusion ("radiation implosion"), in early 1954.	Sakharov's "Third Idea", as the Teller–Ulam design was known in the USSR, was tested in the shot "RDS-37" in November 1955 with a yield of 1.6 megatons. 
noLabel	Also in 2002, the quality win component was modified such that the deduction for beating the #1 team in the BCS would be 1.0, declining by 0.1 increments until beating the 10th ranked team at 0.1.	Teams on probation were not included in the BCS standings, but quality win points were given to teams who beat teams on probation as if they were ranked accordingly in the BCS.
noLabel	Among these were Representative (and former Governor) William M. Tuck, Virginia House Speaker E. Blackburn Moore (a close friend of Byrd's), the Defenders, Kilpatrick, and even Gray himself .	For nearly three weeks in late November and early December, Kilpatrick wrote almost daily in the pages of the Richmond News Leader in favor of interposition . 
noLabel	During several years, a nation-wide crisis affected French society, concerning the alleged treason of Alfred Dreyfus, a French Jewish military officer.	The country polarized itself into two opposite camps, one represented by Émile Zola, who wrote J'accuse in defense of Alfred Dreyfus, and the other represented by the nationalist poet, Maurice Barrès (1862–1923), one of the founders of the ethnic nationalist discourse in France .
noLabel	Israel supported the founding of the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, becoming a signatory to the Convention in 1954.	But although it actively participated in the development of the international refugee system, Israel did not institute the corresponding legal framework at home . 
noLabel	After asking: might a future Russian ruler or renegade Russian general be tempted to use nuclear weapons to make foreign policy?	the documentary writers revealed a greater danger of Russian security over its nuclear stocks, but especially the ultimate danger of human nature to want the ultimate weapon of mass destruction to exercise political and military power.
noLabel	In 2002, Palin ran for the Republican nomination for lieutenant governor, coming in second to Loren Leman in a five-way Republican primary .	Following her defeat, she campaigned throughout the state for the nominated Republican governor-lieutenant governor ticket of Frank Murkowski and Leman .
noLabel	Also, ballots in six counties were discovered after the initial count and included in the recounts, the most being from King County.	The judge hearing the lawsuit ruled that the Party did not provide enough evidence that the disputed votes were ineligible votes, or for whom they were cast, to enable the court to overturn the election. 
noLabel	Given its military pre-eminence, Sparta was recognized as the overall leader of the combined Greek forces during the Greco-Persian Wars .	Between 431 and 404 BC, Sparta was the principal enemy of Athens during the Peloponnesian War, from which it emerged victorious, though at great cost.
noLabel	Foreign assistance is a core component of the State Department's international affairs budget and is considered an essential instrument of U.S. foreign policy.	There are four major categories of non-military foreign assistance: bilateral development aid, economic assistance supporting U.S. political and security goals, humanitarian aid, and multilateral economic contributions (for example, contributions to the World Bank and International Monetary Fund) . 
noLabel	It can apply to a specific hiring decision, or to all hiring decisions by a specific company, or rules governing hiring decisions for an entire nation.	The scope of equal opportunity has expanded to cover more than issues regarding the rights of minority groups, but covers practices regarding "recruitment, hiring, training, layoffs, discharge, recall, promotions, responsibility, wages, sick leave, vacation, overtime, insurance, retirement, pensions, and various other benefits.
noLabel	William I. Robinson, a professor at UCSB, was accused of being antisemitic due to a class assignment that revolved around Israel's attack on the Gaza strip, and he replied by stating that the Israel lobby labels "any criticism" of Israel as anti-Semitic In response, Robinson said: "The fact that I did include my interpretation of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is totally within what is normal and expected.. One of the most pressing affairs of January was the Israeli assault on Gaza - there was nothing that could be more relevant to this course at that time.	When you bring up delicate, sensitive, inflammatory, controversial material in the classroom, we as professors are carrying out our mission to jar students in order to challenge them to think critically about world issues..
noLabel	The vote on Senator Richard Durbin's alternative amendment, which would have given Congress the power to ban flag desecration intended to intimidate or breach peace on federal land, was 36-64 .	Opponents pointed to the proximity of the vote to the November 7, 2006 Congressional Election, and claimed that the vote (and a recent vote on the Federal Marriage Amendment) was election year grandstanding.
noLabel	Protesters gathered in front of both Democratic state headquarters and Republican state headquarters in the days after the injunction against King County's discovered ballots.	On December 21, Republican protestors rallied in front of the Washington State Supreme Court Building dressed in orange and holding signs saying "Welcome to Ukraine", comparing the inclusion of the discovered ballots to the election fraud in the recent Ukrainian presidential election . 
noLabel	A significant number of homicides result as a by-product of another violent crime which escalates, with the offender going into the crime without a clear or sustained intent to kill or be killed .	Overall robbery and assault rates in the United States are also comparable to other developed countries, such as Australia and Finland, notwithstanding the much lower levels of gun ownership in those countries .
noLabel	In just 20 years, a teak plantation in Costa Rica can produce up to about 400 m of wood per hectare.	As the natural teak forests of Asia become more scarce or difficult to obtain, the prices commanded by plantation-grown teak grow higher every year.
noLabel	The Supreme Court rejected that claim and affirmed the District Court's denial of SLAPP relief, holding “The District Court properly denied a motion to dismiss where the underlying claim involved an alleged breach of a settlement agreement that potentially limited the moving party’s rights to public participation.” The Supreme Court explained: Preexisting legal relationships, such as those based on a settlement agreement where a party waives certain rights, may legitimately limit a party’s public participation.	It would be illogical to read sections 554.01-.05 as providing presumptive immunity to actions that a moving party may have contractually agreed to forgo or limit. 
noLabel	For example, Frederick II, "The Great," of Prussia was tutored in the ideas of the French Enlightenment in his youth, and maintained those ideas in his private life as an adult, but in many ways was unable or unwilling to affect enlightened reforms in practice .	Others rulers like Sebastião José de Carvalho e Melo, the prime minister of Portugal, used the enlightenment not only to achieve reforms but also to enhance autocracy, crush opposition, suppress criticism, further colonial economic exploitation, and consolidate personal control and profit. 
noLabel	However, as monarchists point out, the scheme does not take into consideration any provincial input, especially concerning the relationship between the provincial and federal Crowns, and thus the Lieutenant Governors; an issue that would weigh heavily in any constitutional debate on the Crown, regardless of the selection process of the Governor General.	At approximately the same time, the editors of The Globe and Mail began calling for the Governor General to be made head of state under the guise of "patriating the monarchy", and arguing that Canada could rid itself of its Crown without becoming a republic, and backing their journalist Jeffrey Simpson's preference for the Companions of the Order of Canada to choose the head of state in a Canadian republic .
noLabel	In the application, the asylum seeker must describe in detail the situation in his home country and the reason why the FMS should grant him “refugee” status.	Once the asylum seeker has registered and has an application filed with the MOI, the individual can either stay in a Temporary Accommodation Center (“TAC”) or find another place to live until his status is determined. 
noLabel	Early Chinese visitors noted the hospitality of the islanders as well as the sharp economic divisions between the small upper class and the impoverished masses.	Along with the arrival of European explorers in the nineteenth century, the Ryukyuans also came into contact with the Dutch, the Portuguese, the English and others, who always noted the hospitality of the natives. 
noLabel	A similar study suggested that individuals may play a more active role in starting to smoke than has previously been thought and that social processes other than peer pressure also need to be taken into account .	Another study's results indicated that peer pressure was significantly associated with smoking behaviour across all age and gender cohorts, but that intrapersonal factors were significantly more important to the smoking behaviour of 12–13 year-old girls than same-age boys.
noLabel	A short counter-statement, beginning with the phrase "sed contra" ("on the contrary"), is then given; this statement almost always references authoritative literature, such as the Bible or Aristotle .	In this instance, Aquinas begins, "It is written (in Matthew 8:20): 'The Son of Man hath not where to lay His head'" .
noLabel	The CBO estimated in December 2009 that the Senate healthcare reform bill, later signed into law on 23 March 2010, would reduce the deficit during the 2010-2019 period by a total of $132 billion.	This figure comprises $615 billion in incremental costs, offset by cost reductions of $483 billion and additional taxes of $264 billion.
noLabel	During the 1990s, the term was used extensively by the media in the former Yugoslavia in relation to the wars in Croatia and Bosnia.	The conflicting parties used widespread and systematic acts of persecution (murder, violence, detention, intimidation) against opposing populations, creating a such coercive and frightening atmosphere that the targeted population had no option but to flee or be forcibly deported.
noLabel	Critics of this theory (including the Nobel Prize winning economist Milton Friedman, prior to his death a member of Law Enforcement Against Prohibition) point out that demand for illegal drugs is inelastic; the people who are buying drugs will continue to buy them with little regard to price, often turning to crime to support expensive drug habits when the drug prices rise.	One recent study showed that the price of cocaine and methamphetamine is the highest it has ever been while the quality of both is at its lowest point ever .
noLabel	In South Africa the access provisions of the Promotion of Access to Information Act have been used by individuals to establish why their loan application has been denied.	The access provisions have also been used by minority shareholders in private companies and environmental groups, who were seeking information on the potential environmental damage caused by company projects .
noLabel	Racial divisions persisted throughout the election; wide margins of Black voters gave Obama an edge during the presidential primary, where 8 out of 10 African-Americans voted for him in the primaries, and an MSNBC poll showed that race was a key factor in whether a candidate was perceived as being ready for office.	In South Carolina, for instance,"Whites were far likelier to name Clinton than Obama as being most qualified to be commander in chief, likeliest to unite the country and most apt to capture the White House in November.
noLabel	In biology and ecology, extinction is the end of an organism or of a group of organisms (taxon), normally a species.	The moment of extinction is generally considered to be the death of the last individual of the species, although the capacity to breed and recover may have been lost before this point.
noLabel	Since 1976, the US has sustained trade deficits with other nations, and since 1982, current account deficits; the nation's long-standing surplus in its trade in services was maintained, however, and reached US$140&nbsp;billion yearly in 2008 and 2009.	In recent years, the primary economic concerns have centered on: high household debt ($11&nbsp;trillion, including $2.5&nbsp;trillion in revolving debt), high net national debt ($9&nbsp;trillion), high corporate debt ($9&nbsp;trillion), high mortgage debt (over $15&nbsp;trillion as of 2005 year-end), high unfunded Medicare liability ($30&nbsp;trillion), high unfunded Social Security liability ($12&nbsp;trillion), high external debt (amount owed to foreign lenders), high trade deficits, a serious deterioration in the United States net international investment position (NIIP) (−24% of GDP), and high unemployment .
noLabel	An Unaccompanied Refugee Minor (URM) is any person who has not attained 18 years of age who entered the United States unaccompanied by and not destined to: (a) a parent, or (b) a close non-parental adult relative who is willing and able to care for said minor, or (c) an adult with a clear and court-verifiable claim to custody of the minor; and who has no parent(s) in the United States .	Trafficking victims who have been certified by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, are also eligible for benefits and services under this program, to the same extent as refugees. 
noLabel	In the spring of 2009, Eduventures, a higher education consulting firm, released the results of a study that illustrated that the recession had made a significant impact on the views of prospective continuing education students.	A survey of 1,500 adults who planned to enroll in a course or program within the next two years determined that while nearly half of respondents believed that the value of education had risen due to the recession, over two-thirds said the state of the economy had affected their plans to pursue continuing education .
noLabel	If unions succeed in wage hikes, and employers raise the prices they charge consumers to maintain their own profit margins, and the supply of money remains the same, then something else has to "give."	Either the prices of goods and services in nonunion sectors have to fall and offset the union sector hikes, or people's cash balances need to fall, in terms of their purchasing power .
noLabel	Since each AQ conference is guaranteed at least one representative to a BCS game, each conference will receive approximately $21.2 million, plus an additional $6 million should a second conference team be selected.	Although each conference has its own arrangement for the distribution of these funds, the average income per school in each conference is as follows (One team selected/Two teams selected):
noLabel	Prior to the NEA's founding, teachers had formed professional associations in 15 individual states, but there was no cohesive national association uniting them.	That changed in 1857 when Thomas W. Valentine, president of the New York State Teachers Association, issued a nation-wide invitation to teachers to unite behind a common voice for America's growing public school system.
noLabel	In 1939, the United States Supreme Court found in Hague v. Committee for Industrial Organization that public streets and parks "have immemorially been held in trust for the use of the public and, time out of mind, have been used for purposes of assembly, communicating thoughts between citizens, and discussing public questions."	In the later Thornhill v. Alabama case, the court found that picketing and marching in public areas is protected by the United States Constitution as free speech.
noLabel	As a consequence of the Brazilian Forestry Code with its favourable tax incentives, the planted forest area in Brazil increased from 470,000&nbsp;ha to 6.5 million ha by 1993.	With the discontinuation of the tax incentives in 1988, plantation establishment in Brazil has slowed although the commercial feasibility of using eucalyptus for energy and other products has been clearly demonstrated .
noLabel	It is in contradistinction to the separation of powers typical of presidential systems such as that of the United States or France, where the president is in no way a part of the congress.	The specific language of "the Crown", "the King", or "the Queen" in parliament used in the Commonwealth realms also alludes to the constitutional theory that ultimate authority or sovereignty rests with the monarch but is delegated to elected officials.
noLabel	This emphasis on control at the point of entry also owed itself to the geography of Britain as an island and an innate distrust of internal restrictions such as those identity cards and police checks commonly found in other European countries.	The Labour government of 1974-79 maintained a policy of opposing internal immigration controls in favour of putting more resource into the border control and visa offices abroad. 
noLabel	Often, doping was carried out without the knowledge of the athletes, some of them as young as ten years of age.	It is estimated that around 10,000 former athletes bear the physical and mental scars of years of drug abuse, one of them is Rica Reinisch, a triple Olympic champion and world record-setter at the Moscow Games in 1980, has since suffered numerous miscarriages and recurring ovarian cysts. 
noLabel	The Windows API is so broad, so deep, and so functional that most ISVs would be crazy not to use it.	And it is so deeply embedded in the source code of many Windows apps that there is a huge switching cost to using a different operating system instead. 
noLabel	A growing number of citizens are concerned that the Mexican military is "becoming too powerful in the face of state weakness – a chilling reminder of a more repressive era.	" Calderón's use of the army in fighting drug cartels has been questioned by rights groups, but political analysts say troops are his only real option in a country where as many as half the police could be in the pay of drug gangs . 
noLabel	These acts of religious terrorism are seen by the terrorists as small skirmishes in the context of a much larger global religious war .	Although the causes of terrorism are complex, it may be that terrorists are partially reassured by their religious views that God is on their side and will reward them in heaven for punishing unbelievers .
noLabel	In the United States, the Welch-Rose Report of 1915 has been viewed as the basis for the critical movement in the history of the institutional schism between public health and medicine because it led to the establishment of schools of public health supported by the Rockefeller Foundation .	The report was authored by William Welch, founding dean of the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, and Wycliffe Rose of the Rockefeller Foundation.
noLabel	Because the tribes are considered sovereign nations, they are often exempt from state laws restricting gambling, and are instead regulated under federal law.	Additionally, almost all states have legalized gambling in the form of a state-run lottery and most states allow for limited non-profit organizations to host Bingo nights.
noLabel	This had come to their attentiont while investigating a Press TV interview with journalist Maziar Bahari, given under duress, in which he 'confessed' that western journalists working in Iran were spies.	A connection has been made by opponents of the decision with Wikileaks cables suggesting the US and UK governments wanted to end Press TV's broadcasting licence in response to the Iranian government's jamming of the BBC Persian Service and the Voice of America .
noLabel	Taylor (1996) defined culture as, "an integrated pattern of human behavior including thought, communication, ways of interacting, roles and relationships, and expected behaviors, beliefs, values,practices and customs."	Nine-Curt (1984) qualified culture as, "The bearer of human wisdom that includes a wealth of human behaviors, beliefs, attitudes, values and experiences of immense worth.
noLabel	Though complaints were made about the 2007 PSLE Papers being "out of syllabus" and too challenging, this continued in the 2008 PSLE Paper.	The difficult questions in the papers were to "filter" the average and below average students, as claimed by the Ministry of Education, as only those who are truly the best can get aggregate scores above 250. 
noLabel	There is no "formal linking" between equality of opportunity and political structure, according to one view, in the sense that there can be equality of opportunity in democracies, autocracies, and in communist nations, although it is primarily associated with a competitive market economy and embedded within the legal frameworks of democratic societies .	People with different political perspectives see equality of opportunity differently: liberals disagree about which conditions are needed to ensure it; many "old-style" conservatives see inequality and hierarchy in general as beneficial out of a respect for tradition .
noLabel	The Act also forbids the transfer of any naval vessel equipped for combat to any nation engaged in a conflict in which the United States is neutral.	Seemingly uncontroversial when the Act was passed, this later became a legal stumbling block for the administration of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, when he sought to provide military aid to Great Britain before the United States entered World War II .
noLabel	It may be possible for other parts of the Solar System to be inhabited by humanity at some point in the future.	Geoffrey Landis of NASA's Glenn Research Center in particular has pointed out that "[at] cloud-top level, Venus is the paradise planet", as one could construct aerostat habitats and floating cities there easily, based on the concept that breathable air is a lifting gas in the dense Venusian atmosphere.
noLabel	Even though Romney only carried two states and Puerto Rico, he still secured more than half the delegates as he won all the delegates from the smaller territories except two delegate from the Virgin Islands.	One was secured by Paul and one was elected as uncommitted, and one delegate who was elected as uncommitted later pledged himself to Romney.
noLabel	Another reason was that they did not see any serious effort in real social development, only some subsidies for cement, tin roofs, chickens and crops.	After they had offered the declaration to the director of Prodesis and the head of the European Delegation in Mexico-City, some of those who signed the declaration were threatened by Prodesis staff: if they would stand by their signature, they would not receive any kind of government support anymore (like opportunidades or procampo).
noLabel	While the changing of immigrant names is not one of the 4 measurable benchmarks for assimilation outlined by early sociologists, it nonetheless represents a clear abandonment of the old as new immigrants are absorbed into the fabric of society.	It is often believed that, due to language barriers, or the lack of training and sensitivity by government officials, names were often changed, without consent, by inspectors on Ellis Island.
noLabel	Even with this law in place it is hard for artists who have addressed sexually explicit work in work because of complaints which are generally in the form of "inappropriate for children" or seen as a form of "sexual harassment."	Therefore the arts works are removed and at times there are official "no nudity" policies that are put in place . 
noLabel	He argues that the availability of federal research funds distorts “the natural market for scientific research” by inducing scientists to eschew pursuit of radical lines of potentially-promising research that might not appeal to politicians and bureaucrats who hold influence over the allocation of grant monies.	“Federal funding of medical research guarantees the politicization of decisions about what types of research for what diseases will be funded.
noLabel	Pseudoextinction is difficult to demonstrate unless one has a strong chain of evidence linking a living species to members of a pre-existing species.	For example, it is sometimes claimed that the extinct Hyracotherium, which was an early horse that shares a common ancestor with the modern horse, is pseudoextinct, rather than extinct, because there are several extant species of Equus, including zebra and donkeys.
noLabel	In 1991, after international pressure and when a change of government was imminent, South African Ambassador to the United States Harry Schwarz signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.	In 1993, the then president Frederik Willem de Klerk openly admitted that the country had developed a limited nuclear weapon capability.
noLabel	According to leaked intelligence, Israel has been developing nuclear weapons at its Dimona site in the Negev since 1958, and many nonproliferation analysts like David Albright estimate that Israel may have stockpiled between 100 to 200 warheads using the plutonium reprocessed from Dimona.	The Israeli government refuses to confirm or deny possession of nuclear weapons, although this is now regarded as an open secret after Israeli low level nuclear technician Mordechai Vanunu—subsequently arrested and sentenced for treason by Israel—published evidence about the program to the British Sunday Times in 1986. 
noLabel	After the European exploration and subsequent colonization of the Americas in the 16th century, the smoking, cultivation and trading of tobacco quickly spread to all corners of the globe.	By the mid-17th century every major civilization had been introduced to tobacco smoking and in many cases had already assimilated it into the native culture, despite the attempts of many rulers to stamp the practice out with harsh penalties or fines.
noLabel	The social problems and the large net loss of currency led to several Chinese attempts to stop the imports which eventually culminated in the Opium Wars.	Opium smoking later spread with Chinese immigrants and spawned many infamous opium dens in China towns around South and Southeast Asia and Europe.
noLabel	On February 28, 2000, during his presidential primary campaign, McCain sharply criticized leaders of the religious right as "agents of intolerance" allied to his rival, Governor George W. Bush, and denounced what he said were the tactics of "division and slander."	McCain singled out the evangelists Pat Robertson and Jerry Falwell as "corrupting influences on religion and politics" and said parts of the religious right were divisive . 
noLabel	Asian Network for Free Elections (ANFREL), a Bangkok-based election monitoring organization, has publicly called the election observations inadequate, failing to meet international standards, being too restrictive (only two observers are allowed per government, or five for ASEAN nations), and coming too late (invitations were sent less than two weeks before the election date), all of which which make it logistically impossible to monitor all 48 polling stations .	On 20 March 2012, Somsri Hananuntasuk, executive director of ANFREL, was deported from Yangon, purportedly for entering the country a tourist visa . 
noLabel	The first journal appeared in 1665– the Parisian Journal des Scavants – but it was not until 1682 that periodicals began to be more widely produced.	French and Latin were the dominant languages of publication, but there was also a steady demand for material in German and Dutch.
noLabel	Those concerned about high levels of gun violence in the United States in comparison to other developed countries look to restrictions on gun ownership as a way to stem the violence .	Those supportive of long-standing rights to keep and bear arms point to the Second Amendment of the Constitution, which some interpret as specifically preventing infringement of the "right of the people to keep and bear arms", independent of serving in a militia, as the means by which to stem the violence . 
noLabel	On 22 October 1996, in a speech to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences plenary session at the Vatican, Pope John Paul&nbsp;II said of evolution that "this theory has been progressively accepted by researchers, following a series of discoveries in various fields of knowledge.	The convergence, neither sought nor fabricated, of the results of work that was conducted independently is in itself a significant argument in favour of this theory."
noLabel	For example, members of the Irish Cabinet are dismissed by the President on the advice of the Taoiseach (prime minister); in other instances, the head of state may be able to dismiss an office holder unilaterally; other heads of state, or their representatives, have the theoretical power to dismiss any office-holder, while it is exceptionally rarely used.	In France, while the president cannot force the prime minister to tender the resignation of his government, he can, in practice, request it if the prime minister is from his own majority.
noLabel	No single definition of concussion, minor head injury, or mild traumatic brain injury is universally accepted, though a variety of definitions have been offered .	In 2001, the first International Symposium on Concussion in Sport was organized by the International Olympic Committee Medical Commission and other sports federations .
noLabel	An elected mayor (in a mayor and cabinet system) also has the power to appoint up to nine councillors as members of a cabinet and to delegate powers, either to them as individuals, or to the Mayor and Cabinet committee, or to subcommittees of the Mayor and Cabinet committee.	In practice, the mayor remains personally accountable, so most mayors have chosen to delegate to a very limited extent—if at all. 
noLabel	The Israeli Law of Return, passed in 1950, gives those born Jews (having a Jewish mother or grandmother), those with Jewish ancestry (having a Jewish father or grandfather) and converts to Judaism (Orthodox, Reform, or Conservative denominations—not secular—though Reform and Conservative conversions must take place outside the state, similar to civil marriages) the right to immigrate to Israel.	A 1970 amendment, extended immigration rights to "a child and a grandchild of a Jew, the spouse of a Jew, the spouse of a child of a Jew and the spouse of a grandchild of a Jew".
noLabel	Great Britain: A January 2010 Angus Reid Public Opinion poll asked "Do you think abortion should be legal under any circumstances, legal only under certain circumstances, or illegal in all circumstances?"	36% responded that they believe abortion should be legal in all circumstances, 55% that it should be legal in certain circumstances, and 3% that it should be illegal in all circumstances .
noLabel	If a game is particularly violent, it may be referred to the BPjM (Bundesprüfstelle für jugendgefährdende Medien - Federal Verification Office for Child-Endangering Media) who may opt to place it on the Index upon which the game may not be sold openly or advertised in the open media.	Unofficially, the titles are not "banned" - adult gamers are still technically free to obtain the titles by other means, although it is still considered a felony to supply these titles to a child.
noLabel	As free software - especially GNU/Linux - became more popular, industry incumbents such as Microsoft started to see it as a serious threat.	This was shown in a leaked 1998 document, confirmed by Microsoft as genuine, which came to be known as the first of the Halloween Documents. 
noLabel	In October, the Pentagon concluded that the leak "did not disclose any sensitive intelligence sources or methods", and that furthermore "there has not been a single case of Afghans needing protection or to be moved because of the leak.	" Both Wikileaks and Greenwald pointed to this report as clear evidence that the danger caused by the leak had been vastly overstated .
noLabel	Some films produced outside the mainstream studio system during this time did flout the conventions of the code, such as Child Bride (1938), which featured a nude scene involving 12-year-old actress Shirley Mills.	Even cartoon sex symbol Betty Boop had to change from being a flapper, and began to wear an old-fashioned housewife skirt. 
noLabel	Pointing out that Wada itself collated the figures from the tests on footballers, carried out in Wada-registered laboratories, Fifa figures are that in 2011, the latest annual total compiled, 28,587 blood or urine samples were tested worldwide.	Of these, just 19, 0.07%, tested positive for performance-enhancing anabolic and hormonal drugs (40, 0.14%, tested positive for cannabinoids ΓÇô social drugs).Fifa said five of the 19 cases were players in the North Korean women's team, now banned from the 2015 women's World Cup; the other 14 disparate players across the continents, including Europe.
noLabel	Furthermore despite the predictions of thousands of sick and dying babies, since the passage of the NYS protocol requiring DNA testing, no cases have been reported.	The NYC Dept of Health, wishing to further investigate potential cases of neonatal herpes that they believed the ultra-orthodox were hiding, pushed to have neonatal herpes made a reportable disease in NYC in 2006 and found no cases.
noLabel	In England and Wales, summer holidays usually start in the second half of July for state schools, and last until early September – normally a duration of six or seven weeks.	In addition, schools have three one-week-long half-term breaks (one at the end of October, one in mid February and one in late May or early June) as well as two weeks off for Christmas and two weeks off for Easter – bringing the total number of weeks off per year to 13.
noLabel	Some medical associations take the position that the parents should determine what is in the best interest of the infant or child .	The Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP) and the British Medical Association (BMA) observe that controversy exists on this issue, the BMA insisting that a non-therapeutic circumcision must not go ahead without the consent of both parents and, if competent, the child himself . 
noLabel	The radiation pressure exerted by the large quantity of X-ray photons inside the closed casing might be enough to compress the secondary.	For two thermonuclear bombs for which the general size and primary characteristics are well understood, the Ivy Mike test bomb and the modern W-80 cruise missile warhead variant of the W-61 design, the radiation pressure was calculated to be 73 million bar (atmospheres) (7.3 T Pa) for the Ivy Mike design and 1,400 million bar (140 TPa) for the W-80 .
noLabel	APF News, who employed Nagai, demanded that the camera he held when he was killed be returned; to that date only his second camera, thought to be a back-up, had been returned.	Toru Yamaji, the head of APF News, said: "Our biggest task now is to confirm and report on what's in his camera and what he wanted to tell the people on his last day" . 
noLabel	Israel began planning for a military operation as early as six months before the conflict by collecting intelligence on potential targets.	The IDF also engaged in a disinformation campaign to give Hamas a false sense of security and to take them by surprise.
noLabel	There have been a few variations of the Teller–Ulam design suggested by sources claiming to have information from inside of the fence of classification.	Whether these are simply different versions of the Teller–Ulam design, or should be understood as contradicting the above descriptions, is up for interpretation.
noLabel	From April to October 1992, Obama directed Illinois's Project Vote, a voter registration drive with ten staffers and seven hundred volunteer registrars; it achieved its goal of registering 150,000 of 400,000 unregistered African Americans in the state, and led to Crain's Chicago Business naming Obama to its 1993 list of "40 under Forty" powers to be .	In 1993 he joined Davis, Miner, Barnhill & Galland, a 13-attorney law firm specializing in civil rights litigation and neighborhood economic development, where he was an associate for three years from 1993 to 1996, then of counsel from 1996 to 2004, with his law license becoming inactive in 2002 . 
noLabel	These technologies protect the environment, are less polluting, use resources in a sustainable manner, recycle more of their wastes and products and handle all residual wastes in a more environmentally acceptable way than the technologies for which they are substitutes.	Environmentally sound technologies can also be used to drive reduced impacts and enhance value along a supply chain and support businesses embracing product stewardship. 
noLabel	The primary business model for closed-source software involves the use of constraints on what can be done with the software and the restriction of access to the original source code.	This can result in a form of imposed artificial scarcity on a product that is otherwise very easy to copy and redistribute.
noLabel	Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei said on February 6, 2006, that a "Zionist conspiracy" was to blame for the row over the cartoons, in his first reaction to the controversy: "The reason for the Zionist action is because of the loss they suffered by Hamas winning".	Khamenai was referring to Hamas victory in the 2006 Palestinian legislative election, which took place in January, several months after the publication of the cartoons. 
noLabel	The middle school format is increasingly common, in which the elementary school contains kindergarten or 1st grade through 5th grade and the Middle School contains 6th through 8th grade.	In addition, some elementary schools are splitting into two levels, sometimes in separate buildings: primary school (usually K-2) and intermediate (3-5). 
noLabel	However this is not a power of arrest and it is not a power to detain, and does not make truancy a criminal offence .	There is a warning given the first time the parents allow the child to commit truancy more than allowed, then a fine if continued, starting from £50.
noLabel	The Evian Conference, Bermuda Conference, and others failed to resolve the problem of finding a home for large numbers of Jewish refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe.	Following its formation in 1948, according to 1947 UN Partition Plan, Israel adopted the Law of Return, granting Israeli citizenship to any Jewish immigrant.
noLabel	Under US federal law, gambling is legal in the United States, and states are free to regulate or prohibit the practice.	Gambling has been legal in Nevada since 1931, forming the backbone of the state's economy, and Las Vegas is perhaps the best known gambling destination in the world.
noLabel	By mid-October, it was clear that Florida and Alabama would face off in the 2009 SEC Championship Game, and the winner would play in the BCS title game.	It was also generally believed that Texas would get the other spot if it won the 2009 Big 12 Championship Game, despite concerns about a weak non-conference schedule and a surprising lack of quality teams in the Big 12.
noLabel	", and said: "Yeah, I want to water down the targets .. as a cartoonist I just felt so much passion about what had happened, I wanted to counter Comedy Central’s message about feeling afraid.	" The motivation for the protest was not simply to defend the South Park creators, but also to support the right to free speech under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution . 
noLabel	Critics such as constitutional scholar Sanford Levinson have suggested that the population disparity works against residents of large states and causes a steady redistribution of resources from "large states to small states.	" However, others argue that the Connecticut compromise was deliberately intended by the Framers to construct the Senate so that each state had equal footing not based on population, and contend that the result works well on balance.
noLabel	A Free School will have an Authoritarian administration, while a Democratic School enlists all who work and attend to participate in the decision making.	Some schools include Free in their name, but are Democratic Schools in practice, while this almost never occurs in the reverse.
noLabel	Some men genuinely cannot properly maintain an erection while a condom is on, even if they always are able to do so during sexual play without a condom.	There are those who claim that men who experience this problem simply need to "train themselves" to maintain erections while attempting intercourse with a condom (such as by masturbating while wearing a condom, and other strategies), but some of these men counter that they are physically unable to do so regardless of how much they try. 
noLabel	According to the U.S. State Department's 2010 Human Rights Report, the Military Advocate General investigated over 150 wartime incidents, including those mentioned in the Goldstone Report.	As of July, the Military Advocate General launched 47 criminal investigations into the conduct of IDF personnel, and completed a significant number of those . 
noLabel	Criminology (from Latin , "accusation"; and Greek , -logia) is the scientific study of the nature, extent, causes, and control of criminal behavior in both the individual and in society.	Criminology is an interdisciplinary field in the behavioral sciences, drawing especially upon the research of sociologists (particularly in the sociology of deviance), psychologists and psychiatrists, social anthropologists as well as on writings in law. 
noLabel	The culture of India is an amalgamation of these diverse sub-cultures spread all over the Indian subcontinent and traditions that are several millennia old .	The Indian caste system describes the social stratification and social restrictions in the Indian subcontinent, in which social classes are defined by thousands of endogamous hereditary groups, often termed as jātis or castes . 
noLabel	Paul considers it a "boondoggle" for the U.S. to spend much money policing other countries' borders (such as the Iraq–Syria border) while leaving its own borders porous and unpatrolled; he argues the U.S.–Mexico border can be crossed by anyone, including potential terrorists .	During the Cold War, he supported Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative, intended to replace the "strategic offense" doctrine of mutual assured destruction with strategic defense. 
noLabel	HRW deputy Middle East director Joe Stork stated: "Hamas can spin the story and deny the evidence, but hundreds of rockets rained down on civilian areas in Israel where no military installations were located.	" The Associated Press noted that "Hamas fired hundreds of rockets toward Israeli towns and cities during the fighting, killing three Israeli civilians" . 
noLabel	However, it is only in the last 30 years that public health has begun to address violence, and only in the last fifteen has it done so at the global level .	This is a much shorter period of time than public health has been tackling other health problems of comparable magnitude and with similarly severe life-long consequences. 
noLabel	Beyond the obvious detriments towards the theoretical success of open source software, there are several factors that contribute to the lack of long-term success in open source projects.	One of the most obvious drawback is that without pay or royalty licensing, there is little financial incentive for a programmer to become involved with a project in the first place, or to continue development and support once the initial product is released.
noLabel	On a national level, two-thirds (67%) of voters polled by PublicMind in March 2010 opposed changing the law to allow online betting.	Men were more likely than women (29%-14%) and liberals more likely than conservatives (27%-18%) to approve of changing the law to allow online betting . 
noLabel	When Benedict ascended to the Papacy his election was welcomed by the Anti-Defamation League who noted "his great sensitivity to Jewish history and the Holocaust" .	However, his election received a more reserved response from the United Kingdom's Chief Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, who hoped that Benedict would "continue along the path of Pope John XXIII and Pope John Paul II in working to enhance relations with the Jewish people and the State of Israel.
noLabel	Article 3 condemns apartheid and racial segregation and obliges parties to "prevent, prohibit and eradicate" these practices in territories under their jurisdiction .	This article has since been strengthened by the recognition of apartheid as a crime against humanity in the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court . 
noLabel	Thomas Figures, a black Assistant U.S. Attorney, testified that Sessions said he thought the Klan was "OK until I found out they smoked pot.	" Figures also testified that on one occasion, when the U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division sent the office instructions to investigate a case that Sessions had tried to close, Figures and Sessions "had a very spirited discussion regarding how the Hodge case should then be handled; in the course of that argument, Mr.
noLabel	In the United Kingdom, School refers to a private school that provides a learner centered informal education as an alternative to the regimen of traditional education in the United Kingdom .	There is a long tradition of such schools which includes Summerhill, the founder of which, A. S. Neill, greatly influenced the spread of such schools, Dartington, and Kilquhanity School and a range of schools based on the ideas of Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner .
noLabel	However, it may also protect against bribery and blackmail since the public and media will be aware if a politician votes in an unexpected way.	Since voters and parties are entitled to pressure politicians to vote a particular way, the line between legitimate and fraudulent pressure is not always clear. 
noLabel	For example, a 1999 study by the Guttmacher Institute found that most U.S. sex education courses in grades 7 through 12 cover puberty, HIV, STIs, abstinence, implications of teenage pregnancy, and how to resist peer pressure.	Other studied topics, such as methods of birth control and infection prevention, sexual orientation, sexual abuse, and factual and ethical information about abortion, varied more widely . 
noLabel	Appropriation practice involves the 'appropriation' of ideas, symbols, artefacts, image, sound, objects, forms or styles from other cultures, from art history, from popular culture or other aspects of man made visual or non visual culture .	Anthropologists have studied the process of cultural appropriation, or cultural borrowing (which includes art and urbanism), as part of cultural change and contact between different cultures .
noLabel	The acceptance of drug-taking in the Tour de France was so complete by 1930, when the race changed to national teams that were to be paid for by the organisers, that the rule book distributed to riders by the organiser, Henri Desgrange, reminded them that drugs were not among items with which they would be provided .	In a 1949 interview with Fausto Coppi, the 1949 and 1952 Tour winner, he admitted to amphetamine use and said "those who claim [that cyclists do not take amphetamine], it's not worth talking to them about cycling" .
noLabel	Social programs in the United States are those institutions, supported or managed by the U.S. government, that aim to ensure economic security, universal access to the resources for self-development and the reduction of social suffering, such as poverty and illness .	The main guiding philosophy for the creation of the U.S. welfare state has been modern American liberalism, which holds that positive rights, such as health care and education, are requirements for individual liberty . 
noLabel	Another catastrophe resulted from the Globus-1 explosion near the village of Galkino, 40 kilometers from Kineshma city on September 19, 1971 .	It was a small underground explosion of 2.5 kilotons that was a part of the seismological program for oil and gas exploration.
noLabel	The division between primary and secondary education is somewhat arbitrary, but it generally occurs at about eleven or twelve years of age.	Some education systems have separate middle schools, with the transition to the final stage of secondary education taking place at around the age of fourteen.
noLabel	Some commentators also assert that there is an inconsistent reaction towards various countries whose media is guilty of the same thing.	For example, the Egyptian Newspaper El Fagr published 6 of the Muhammad cartoons during Ramadan with no apparent adverse reaction . 
noLabel	In February 2008, Reuters reported that global inflation was at historic levels, and that domestic inflation was at 10–20 year highs for many nations .	"Excess money supply around the globe, monetary easing by the Fed to tame financial crisis, growth surge supported by easy monetary policy in Asia, speculation in commodities, agricultural failure, rising cost of imports from China and rising demand of food and commodities in the fast growing emerging markets," have been named as possible reasons for the inflation . 
noLabel	The work of Emmanuel Saez, in particular, has shed more light on the role of American tax policy in aggregating wealth into the top 0.001% of households in recent years while classical arguments and research from conservative scholars such as Thomas Sowell of the Hoover Institute and Gary Becker of the University of Chicago maintain that education, globalization, and market forces, which operate on the premise of scarcity, are the root causes of income and overall economic inequality.	The Revenue Act of 1964 and the "Bush Tax Cuts" are the bookends of the last fifty years of tax policy changes and coincide with the rising economic inequality in the United States both by socioeconomic class and race which makes them logical starting and end points for this scholarly and political debate .
noLabel	Conservative, libertarian and neoliberal arguments against property redistribution consider the term a euphemism for theft or forced labor, and argue that redistribution of legitimately obtained property cannot ever be just .	Public choice theory states that redistribution tends to benefit those with political clout to set spending priorities more than those in need, who lack real influence on government . 
noLabel	But a fracture in the pro-segregation movement prevented much legislation from moving forward during the remainder of the regular legislative session.	Hopes were initially high when, on March 6, 1956, the Virginia constitutional convention voted 39-to-1 to approve the constitutional amendment to permit educational vouchers .
noLabel	The Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was established in 2008 to monitor the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.	It has the power to receive complaints against the countries which have opted into the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. 
noLabel	OCHA found that there had been no improvement in the quality of services provided to the population of the Gaza Strip as a result of the projects so far .	There was no significant increase in the number of exit permits granted by Israel to allow access to the outside world including other parts of the Palestinan territories .
noLabel	“The approval by Afghan President Hamid Karzai of the Shia Personal Status Law in March 2009 effectively destroyed Shia women’s rights and freedoms in Afghanistan.	Under this law, women have no right to deny their husbands sex unless they are ill, and can be denied food if they do.” .
noLabel	Descendants of African slaves and immigrants faced a much more difficult challenge due to their skin color and discrimination enforced by legal systems, such as the Jim Crow laws in the United States.	Since the 1960s, African Americans as well as other minority groups such as Mexican Americans have gained greater social and economic status and power. 
noLabel	A number of spiritual and philosophical traditions including Native american, Buddhist and Jain are drawn upon in a continuing critique of the philosophical assumptions of the modern European mind which has enabled and led to what is seen as an increasingly unsustainable level of disregard to towards the rights and needs of the natural world and its ability to continue to support human life.	In relation to the Judeo-Christian tradition, Næss offers the following criticism: "The arrogance of stewardship [as found in the Bible] consists in the idea of superiority which underlies the thought that we exist to watch over nature like a highly respected middleman between the Creator and Creation.
noLabel	It was the first U.S. nuclear weapon designed from the start to avoid accidental detonation, with the use of 'insensitive' explosive in the trigger lens system.	Its layout is similar to the smaller B61, with the warhead mounted in the forward part of the weapon to deliberately make the bomb nose-heavy.
noLabel	Human rights are a bread and butter issue for foreign aid and the internet is now one of the key battle grounds for freedom of speech.	Activists are unlikely to be able to match their states on their own; foreign aid can help redress the balance.” - Alex Helling
noLabel	STD incidence rates remain high in most of the world, despite diagnostic and therapeutic advances that can rapidly render patients with many STDs noninfectious and cure most.	In many cultures, changing sexual morals and oral contraceptive use have eliminated traditional sexual restraints, especially for women, and both physicians and patients have difficulty dealing openly and candidly with sexual issues.
noLabel	Cannabis was common in the Middle East before the arrival of tobacco, and has been known to be in existence since 2000 BC.	The early consumption of cannabis was a common social activity that centered around the type of water pipe called a hookah. 
noLabel	It was not until the 1970s when the negative aspects of smoking began to appear; the unhealthy lower-class loser, reeking of cigarette smoke and lack of motivation and drive, especially in art inspired or commissioned by anti-smoking campaigns .	In his painting "Holy Smokes", artist Brian Whelan pokes fun at the smoking debate and its newly found focus on morality and guilt.
noLabel	In addition, such laws may reduce health care costs, improve work productivity, and lower the overall cost of labour in the community thus protected, making that workforce more attractive for employers.	In the US state of Indiana, the economic development agency included in its 2006 plan for acceleration of economic growth encouragement for cities and towns to adopt local smoking bans as a means of promoting job growth in communities. 
noLabel	The constitutionally-mandated report, normally given as an annual speech, is modeled on Britain's Speech from the Throne, was written by most presidents after Jefferson but personally delivered as a spoken oration beginning with Wilson in 1913.	Joint Sessions and Joint Meetings are traditionally presided over by the Speaker of the House except when counting presidential electoral votes when the vice president presides.
noLabel	" He believes that patients would be best served by healthcare practitioners operating under the rules of the free market in voluntary contractual arrangements.	Paul feels that anyone who claims to be a healthcare practitioner (whether of allopathic, homeopathic, or naturopathic medicine) should be able to offer healthcare services, without interference from the “nanny state.” .
noLabel	The display of the Ten Commandments as part of courthouse displays was considered in a group of cases decided in summer of 2005, including McCreary County v. ACLU of Kentucky and Van Orden v. Perry.	While parties on both sides hoped for a reformulation or clarification of the Lemon test, the two rulings ended with narrow 5-4 and opposing decisions, with Justice Stephen Breyer the swing vote. 
noLabel	Article 5 provides the right to liberty, subject only to lawful arrest or detention under certain other circumstances, such as arrest on reasonable suspicion of a crime or imprisonment in fulfilment of a sentence.	The article also provides the right to be informed in a language one understands of the reasons for the arrest and any charge against them, the right of prompt access to judicial proceedings to determine the legality of one's arrest or detention and to trial within a reasonable time or release pending trial, and the right to compensation in the case of arrest or detention in violation of this article.
noLabel	The central debate about the origin has been focused on the respective parts played by the public monetary policy (in the US notably) and by private financial institutions practices.	In the U.S., mortgage funding was unusually decentralized, opaque, and competitive, and it is believed that competition between lenders for revenue and market share contributed to declining underwriting standards and risky lending . 
noLabel	In October 1990, the militant Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), forcibly expelled the entire Muslim population (approx 75,000) from the Northern Province of Sri Lanka.	The Muslims were given 48 hours to vacate the premises of their homes while their properties were subsequently looted by LTTE.
noLabel	Let's agree that the risks of someone with bad intentions buying Sudafed, or getting on a plane are bad enough that it makes sense to err on the side of caution.	The ID-less people who want to buy Sudafed just to treat a head cold, or who are badly organized travelers, do not suffer overmuch ΓÇô and have other options.By contrast, those with good intentions and blameless records who are barred from legally casting a ballot because they lack ID are not just being inconvenienced; they are being denied the right that defines democracy.
noLabel	Nicotine that is contained in cigarettes and other smoked tobacco products is a stimulant and is one of the main factors leading to continued tobacco smoking.	Although the amount of nicotine inhaled with tobacco smoke is quite small (most of the substance is destroyed by the heat) it is still sufficient to cause physical and/or psychological dependence.
noLabel	The new organisation attracted considerable public interest and draw support from a range of interests, including scientists, religious leaders, academics, journalists, writers, actors and musicians.	Its sponsors included John Arlott, Peggy Ashcroft, the Bishop of Birmingham Dr J. L. Wilson, Benjamin Britten, Viscount Chaplin, Michael de la Bédoyère, Bob Edwards, MP, Dame Edith Evans, A.S.Frere, Gerald Gardiner, QC, Victor Gollancz, Dr I.Grunfeld, E.M.Forster, Barbara Hepworth, Patrick Heron, Rev.
noLabel	Biased information can affect public policy if the government tampers with the way information is portrayed in order to cast a positive or negative light on it.	Depending on how transparent a news article is, one can determine its reliability and make assumptions or draw one’s own conclusions from the findings.
noLabel	While the vast majority of states have adhered to the stipulations of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, a few states have either refused to sign the treaty or have pursued nuclear weapons programs while not being members of the treaty.	Many view the pursuit of nuclear weapons by these states as a threat to nonproliferation and world peace, and therefore seek policies to discourage the spread of nuclear weapons to these states, a few of which are often described by the US as "rogue states". 
noLabel	The exercise was criticised as unrealistic as an actual exchange would be much larger, with one academic describing a 200-megaton attack as an "extremely low figure and one which we find very difficult to take seriously", and did not include targets in Inner London such as Whitehall .	Even so, the effect of the limited attack in Square Leg was estimated to be 29 million dead (53% of the population) and 6.4 million seriously injured .
noLabel	One Southern state precipitated what was called the nullification crisis over the issue of tariffs, arguing that states had the right to ignore federal laws.	Yet, for the time being, a combination of Southern and Western Democrats in favor of Union united with Southern Whigs interested in bridging the divide between North and South, and managed to guide the Union through these later decades. 
noLabel	In addition, nicotine stimulates the mesolimbic dopamine pathway (as do other drugs of abuse), causing an effective increase in dopamine levels.	Opponents counter by noting that consumption of pure nicotine may be as beneficial as smoking without the risks associated with smoking, although this is unlikely due to the importance of the MAO-B inhibitor compounds of tobacco in preventing neurodegenerative diseases.
noLabel	While much smaller than the arsenals of the US and the USSR, Western Europe's nuclear reserves were nevertheless a significant factor in strategic planning during the Cold War.	A top-secret White Paper, compiled by the Royal Air Force and produced for the British Government in 1959, estimated that British atomic bombers were capable of destroying key cities and military targets in the Soviet Union, with an estimated 16 million deaths in the USSR (half of whom were estimated to be killed on impact and the rest fatally injured) before bomber aircraft from the US Strategic Air Command reached their targets.
noLabel	Jonathan Kay of the National Post criticized Steacy's remarks, stating that: "for an organization that is supposed to promote "human rights," the HRC's agents seem curiously oblivious to basic aspects of constitutional law."	He added that, in Mr. Steacy's mind, "Section 2 has been excised from his copy of the Canadian Charter of Rights .
noLabel	Golani Brigade commander Col. Avi Peled said in response that the soldier had not been in combat at the time and that his testimony is based on what he heard happened.	Peled added that at no point was there any civilian who was sent in ahead of Israeli troops to any place . 
noLabel	Certain states, such as Maine, Florida and New Mexico, have laws that permit homeschooling families to take advantage of public school resources.	In such cases, children can be members of sports teams, be members of the school band, can take art classes, and utilize services such as speech therapy while maintaining their homeschool lifestyle.
noLabel	Immigration enforcement has, during the 2000s and after, undergone a long process of reform where immigration staff have been trained and equipped to perform their own arrests rather than rely on police support.	Not all enforcement work is based on visiting addresses to arrest or detain suspects; much effort is dedicated to attending police stations and interviewing suspected offenders who have been arrested by police. 
noLabel	"We've noticed in Hong Kong and Singapore and other East Asian nations that expectations of mathematical knowledge or of scientific knowledge at every stage are more demanding than in this country," Gove said.	"In order to reach those levels of achievement a higher level of effort is expected on behalf of students, parents and teachers.
noLabel	1969 Street v. New York (394 U.S. 576) – The Supreme Court held that New York could not convict a person based on his verbal remarks disparaging the flag.	Street was arrested after he learned of the shooting of civil rights leader James Meredith and reacted by burning his own flag and exclaiming to a small crowd that if the government could allow Meredith to be killed, "we don't need no damn flag."
noLabel	In February 1971 Ellsberg discussed the study with New York Times reporter Neil Sheehan, and gave 43 of the volumes to him in March.	The Times began publishing excerpts on June 13, 1971; the first article in the series was titled "Vietnam Archive: Pentagon Study Traces Three Decades of Growing US Involvement".
noLabel	The Mandate of Heaven is a well-accepted and popular idea among the people of China, as it argues for the removal of incompetent or despotic rulers, and provided an incentive for rulers to rule well and justly.	The concept is often invoked by philosophers and scholars in ancient China as a way to curtail the abuse of power by the ruler, in a system that otherwise offered no other check to this power.
noLabel	Transmission systems operators will supply a wind farm developer with a grid code to specify the requirements for interconnection to the transmission grid.	This will include power factor, constancy of frequency and dynamic behavior of the wind farm turbines during a system fault .
noLabel	Based on the 2010 U.S. budget, total national debt will grow to nearly 100% of GDP, versus a level of approximately 80% in early 2009 .	The White House estimates that the government’s tab for servicing the debt will exceed $700&nbsp;billion a year in 2019, up from $202&nbsp;billion in 2009 . 
noLabel	The human rights of women include their right to have control over and decide freely and responsibly on matters related to their sexuality, including sexual and reproductive health, free of coercion, discrimination and violence.	Equal relationships between women and men in matters of sexual relations and reproduction, including full respect for the integrity of the person, require mutual respect, consent and shared responsibility for sexual behavior and its consequences [para.
noLabel	Negusie v. Holder (formerly Negusie v. Mukasey), 555 U.S. 511 (2009), was a legal case in which the United States Supreme Court agreed to review the issue whether the bar to asylum in the United States for persecutors applies to asylum applicants who have been the target of credible threats of harm or torture in their home countries if they refuse to further participate in the acts of persecution.	At issue is whether Daniel Negusie, who says he was forced to assist in the mistreatment of prisoners in Eritrea under threat of execution, may nonetheless apply for asylum because any assistance he rendered was provided under duress. 
noLabel	In many developed countries, a high proportion of the population (up to 50%), now enter higher education at some time in their lives.	Higher education is therefore very important to national economies, both as a significant industry in its own right and as a source of trained and educated personnel for the rest of the economy. 
noLabel	Legal criticisms of the Roe decision address many points, among them are several suggesting that it is an overreach of judicial powers, or that it was not properly based on the Constitution, or that it is an example of judicial activism and that it should be overturned so that abortion law can be decided by legislatures .	Justice Potter Stewart, who joined with the majority, viewed the Roe opinion as "legislative" and asked that more consideration be paid to state legislatures . 
noLabel	Some interpreted this statement as not only permitting sex between married couples during pregnancy and menopause, but also during the infertile times of the menstrual cycle.	 The mathematical formula for the rhythm method had been formalized in 1930, and in 1932 a Catholic physician published a book titled The Rhythm of Sterility and Fertility in Women promoting the method to Catholics .
noLabel	Problems with today's development aid include the high proportion of tied aid, which mandates receiving nations to buy products, often more expensive, originating only from donor countries .	Nevertheless, some believe (Peter Singer in his book The Life You Can Save) that small changes in the way each of us in affluent nations lives our lives could solve world poverty.
noLabel	A number of deadly pogroms by local populations occurred during the Second World War, some with Nazi encouragement, and some spontaneously.	This included the Iaşi pogrom in Romania on June 30, 1941, in which as many as 14,000 Jews were killed by Romanian residents and police, and the Jedwabne pogrom, in which between 380 and 1,600 Jews were killed by local Poles in July 1941 .
noLabel	The EMCDDA review noted that research into the effects of the facilities "faces methodological challenges in taking account of the effects of broader local policy or ecological changes", still they concluded "that the facilities reach their target population and provide immediate improvements through better hygiene and safety conditions for injectors."	Further that the facilitates "does not increase levels of drug use or risky patterns of consumption, nor does it result in higher rates of local drug acquisition crime."
noLabel	The criminal deportation process is different to that action taken against illegal entrants, is based on some of the oldest immigration legislation and rooted in a very different world.	It is a process for dealing with those who have broken the criminal law and, before Court Recommended deportation was discontinued, could be thought of as falling into two main areas:
noLabel	The U.S. government, primarily through ATF, ICE and Customs and Border Protection, is assisting Mexico with technology, equipment and training .	Project Gunrunner is part of the ATF’s effort to collaborate with the Mexican authorities and its "cornerstone" has been the expansion of eTrace, a computerized system to facilitate tracing guns which were manufactured in or imported legally to the U.S.A . 
noLabel	If crime is seen as a function of anomie, organised behaviour produces stability, increases protection or security, and may be directly proportional to market forces as expressed by entrepreneurship- or risk-based approaches.	It is the inadequate supply of legitimate opportunities that constrains the ability for the individual to pursue valued societal goals and reduces the likelihood that using legitimate opportunities will enable them to satisfy such goals (due to their position in society) .
noLabel	Borrowing from Kant, Cassirer states that Enlightenment is the process by which the spirit "achieves clarity and depth in its understanding of its own nature and destiny, and of its own fundamental character and mission" .	In short, the Enlightenment was a series of philosophical, scientific and otherwise intellectual developments that took place mostly in the 18th century – the birthplace of intellectual modernity.
noLabel	Australia's first commercial wind farm, Salmon Beach Wind Farm near Esperance in Western Australia operated for 15 years from 1987, but was decommissioned due to urban encroachment; it has been replaced by Ten Mile Lagoon Wind Farm and Nine Mile Beach Wind Farm.	In August 2009, The Age newspaper reported that the first of three new large-scale wind farming projects to offset Australia's power-hungry desalination plants would be going ahead .
noLabel	Compulsory education had not been part of early American society, which relied instead on private schools that mostly charged tuition .	The spread of compulsory education in the Massachusetts tradition throughout America, especially for Native Americans, has been credited to General Richard Henry Pratt .
noLabel	One of Assange's lawyers, however, says they are fighting extradition to Sweden because it might lead to his extradition to the United States .	Assange's attorney, Mark Stephens, has "heard from Swedish authorities there has been a secretly empanelled grand jury in Alexandria [Virginia]" meeting to consider criminal charges in the WikiLeaks case . 
noLabel	The State of California was joined by eleven other States, including those that had passed laws later declared unconstitutional; the States, in an amicus brief, stated that they are "vitally interested in protecting the welfare of children and in helping parents raise them" but the District Court's decision restricts their authority to do so .	Further supporting the State of California were the American Academy of Pediatrics, the California Psychological Association, Common Sense Media, and the Eagle Forum . 
noLabel	An example for this debate is advertising for tobacco or alcohol but also advertising by mail or fliers (clogged mail boxes), advertising on the phone, in the Internet and advertising for children.	Various legal restrictions concerning spamming, advertising on mobile phones, addressing children, tobacco, alcohol have been introduced by the US, the EU and other countries. 
noLabel	It is often claimed that because each electoral district votes for its own representative, the elected candidate is held accountable to their own voters, thereby helping to prevent incompetent, fraudulent or corrupt behavior by elected candidates.	The voters in the electoral district can easily replace him since they have full power over who they want to represent them. 
noLabel	The most obvious form of entrepreneurship is that of starting new businesses (referred as Startup Company); however, in recent years, the term has been extended to include social and political forms of entrepreneurial activity.	When entrepreneurship is describing activities within a firm or large organization it is referred to as intra-preneurship and may include corporate venturing, when large entities spin-off organizations . 
noLabel	In a post Cold War America, one of the potentially biggest threats to U.S. national security is the spread of chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons in nations plagued by civil and economic unrest.	Not only are weapons of mass destruction, and the extremists that may use them, a threat to the United States, but they are also a threat to many industrialized nations across the world. 
noLabel	A third alternative, the cooperative apartment building (or "co-op"), acts as a corporation with all of the tenants as shareholders of the building.	Tenants in cooperative buildings do not own their apartment, but instead own a proportional number of shares of the entire cooperative.
noLabel	For instance, in 2006, the Department of Agriculture estimated that the average farm household income was $77,654 or about 17% higher than the average U.S. household income .	From a public economics perspective, subsidies of any kind work to create a socially and politically acceptable equilibrium that is not necessarily Pareto Efficient .
noLabel	On September 17, Prime Minister Olmert announced that he was ready to make peace with Syria "without preset conditions and without ultimatums" .	According to a poll done by the Dahaf Research Institute, Olmert's approval rating rose from 25% to 35% after the airstrike . 
noLabel	In temperate and boreal climates, clearcutting can have an effect on the depth of snow, which is usually greater in a clearcut area than in the forest, due to a lack of interception and evapotranspiration.	This results in less soil frost, which in combination with higher levels of direct sunlight results in snowmelt occurring earlier in the spring .
noLabel	Early 1970s reapportionment led to the district being only 65 percent black, and by 1979 it was 50 percent black, 30 percent white, and 20 percent Puerto Rican .	By 2000, only 3 in 10 district residents were black, while nearly half were Hispanic, with many of the newcomers Dominican . 
noLabel	Prevalent ultranationalism typically leads to or is the result of conflict within a state, and or between states, and is identified as a condition of pre-war in national politics.	In its extremist forms ultranationalism is characterized as a call to war against enemies of the nation/state, secession or, in the case of ethnocentrist ultranationalism, genocide . 
noLabel	Most of this loss has occurred since independence from the French, and is the result of local people using slash-and-burn agricultural practices as they try to subsist .	Largely due to deforestation, the country is currently unable to provide adequate food, fresh water and sanitation for its fast growing population .
noLabel	The 2004 election became a focus of media attention again in early 2007 when news broke that eight federal prosecutors including John McKay, U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington, had been fired.	Republicans had hoped that after the election McKay would begin a federal investigation into alleged voter fraud, but he did not; McKay stated afterward that he would not convene a grand jury for purely political reasons and emphasized he had not seen any evidence of voter fraud in the Governor's race .
noLabel	When Napoleon rose to power in 1799, there was no ancient base from which to draw his staff, and he had to choose the people he thought best for the job, including officers from his army, revolutionaries who had been in the National Assembly, and even some former aristocrats such as prime minister Talleyrand.	This policy was summed up in Bonaparte's often-quoted phrase "La carrière ouverte aux talents", careers open to the talented, or as more freely translated by Thomas Carlyle, "the tools to him that can handle them".
noLabel	William Penney, a physicist specialising in hydrodynamics was asked in October 1946 to prepare a report on the viability of building a UK weapon.	Joining the Manhattan project in 1944, he had been in the observation plane Big Stink over Nagasaki, and had also done damage assessment on the ground following Japan's surrender.
noLabel	In economic theory, moral hazard is a tendency to take undue risks because the costs are not borne by the party taking the risk.	The term defines a situation where the behavior of one party may change to the detriment of another after a transaction has taken place.
noLabel	The "strongest, political rationale" for democratic education is that it teaches "the virtues of democratic deliberation for the sake of future citizenship.	" This type of education is often alluded to in the deliberative democracy literature as fulfilling the necessary and fundamental social and institutional changes necessary to develop a democracy that involves intensive participation in group decision making, negotiation, and social life of consequence. 
noLabel	TBI can cause prolonged or permanent effects on consciousness, such as coma, brain death, persistent vegetative state (in which patients are unable to achieve a state of alertness to interact with their surroundings), and minimally conscious state (in which patients show minimal signs of being aware of self or environment) .	Lying still for long periods can cause complications including pressure sores, pneumonia or other infections, progressive multiple organ failure, and deep venous thrombosis, which can cause pulmonary embolism .
noLabel	Nationalism also plays a large part in these political debates, as cultural pluralism and consociationalism are the democratic alternatives to nationalism for the polyethnic state .	The idea of nationalism being social instead of ethnic entails a variety of culture, a shared sense of identity, and a community not based on descent .
noLabel	However, this argument does nothing to invalidate the argument from poor design, as it merely shifts the focus of the question to why those specific components of the photosynthetic apparatus were designed to be unable to cope with commonly-encountered levels of solar energy.	Natural selection as an explanation fares much better because it posits that photosynthesis originally evolved in an aquatic environment, then later adapted (but imperfectly) to the higher solar energy found in terrestrial environments.
noLabel	The Commission is aware of the press reports in question, and considers any suggestion of EU involvement in any act of violence in Chiapas or elsewhere to be utterly without foundation.	[..] There is certainly no evidence to suggest that the reported attack was encouraged by the signing of the financing agreement for this project."
noLabel	Each show depicts the gritty reality that pregnant teens face from friends and family while going through this life changing event, allowing teens to see what actually happens in this scenario through an outlet other than a scripted plot.	Autobiographies that look at the author’s own experience of teenage motherhood include I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings and Gather Together in My Name by Maya Angelou, Coal Miner's Daughter by Loretta Lynn, and Riding in Cars with Boys by Beverly D'Onofrio. 
noLabel	"It cannot be supposed that [the hypothetical contractors] they should intend, had they a power so to do, to give any one or more an absolute arbitrary power over their persons and estates, and put a force into the magistrate's hand to execute his unlimited will arbitrarily upon them; this were to put themselves into a worse condition than the state of nature, wherein they had a liberty to defend their right against the injuries of others, and were upon equal terms of force to maintain it, whether invaded by a single man or many in combination.	Whereas by supposing they have given up themselves to the absolute arbitrary power and will of a legislator, they have disarmed themselves, and armed him to make a prey of them when he pleases.." . 
noLabel	Large increases in such borrowing can also push up interest rates and increase the amount of future interest payments the federal government must make to lenders outside of the United States, which reduces Americans’ income.	By contrast, intragovernmental debt (the other component of the gross debt) has no such effects because it is simply money the federal government owes (and pays interest on) to itself. 
noLabel	An emerging practice in the sector of private colleges and universities is for investors to procure struggling private non-profit colleges or universities in order to salvage or expand the institution.	When investors are involved with the institution, it consequently changes the status of the institution from non-profit to for-profit; such as in the case of United States University. 
noLabel	Providing family planning services and modern contraceptives to those who do not have access to them would prevent a large proportion of unintended pregnancies and abortions, as well as many maternal and infant deaths, slow environmental degradation, and save billions of dollars a year in health care, education and other costs .	Reducing unintended pregnancy also reduces the rate of child abuse, and child poverty and improves maternal and child mental and physical health . 
noLabel	Once there, Rangel rose rapidly in the Democratic ranks, combining solidly liberal views with a pragmatic approach towards finding political and legislative compromises.	His long-time concerns with battling the importation and effects of illegal drugs led to his becoming chair of the House Select Committee on Narcotics, where he helped define national policy on the issue during the 1980s.
noLabel	ACM currently makes a point of fighting what Michael Kirby called "a republic by stealth," which they define as subtle removal of the Crown from Australian life.	These include removals of references to the Crown from oaths and legislation, the replacement of the position of Queen's Counsel in some states with that of Senior Counsel.
noLabel	It is important that cross-cultural competence training and skills not break down into application of stereotypes of a group of individuals.	Although the goal is to promote understanding between groups of individuals that, as a whole, think somewhat differently, it may fail to recognize the specific differences between individuals of any given group.
noLabel	Hoover Dam's initial 1,345 MW power plant was the world's largest hydroelectric power plant in 1936; it was eclipsed by the 6809 MW Grand Coulee Dam in 1942 .	The Itaipu Dam opened in 1984 in South America as the largest, producing 14,000 MW but was surpassed in 2008 by the Three Gorges Dam in China at 22,500 MW.
noLabel	Damage may occur directly under the site of impact, or it may occur on the side opposite the impact (coup and contrecoup injury, respectively) .	When a moving object impacts the stationary head, coup injuries are typical, while contrecoup injuries are usually produced when the moving head strikes a stationary object .
noLabel	In March 1999, following a major inspection from OFSTED, the then Secretary of State for Education and Employment, David Blunkett, issued the school with a notice of complaint, which took issue with the school's policy of non-compulsory lessons.	Failure to comply with such a notice within six months usually leads to closure; however, Summerhill chose to contest the notice in court . 
noLabel	The Learning and Skills Improvement Service (LSIS - formerly the Quality Improvement Agency and Centre for Excellence in Leadership) is the sector owned body supporting the development of excellent and sustainable FE provision across the learning and skills sector.	Its aim is to accelerate the drive for excellence and, working in partnership with all parts of the sector, builds on the sector’s own capacity to design, commission and deliver improvement and strategic change. 
noLabel	According to the United States Department of State, the police and the military in Mexico were accused of committing serious human rights violations as they carried out government efforts to combat drug cartels .	Immense power in the executive branch and corruption in the legislative and judiciary branches also contribute to the worsening of Mexico’s human rights situation, leading to such problems as police forces violating basic human rights through torture and threats, the autonomy of the military and its consequences and the ineffectiveness of the judiciary in upholding and preserving basic human rights.
noLabel	Tobacco growers and quota holders in the 14 states that grow flue-cured and burley tobacco used to manufacture cigarettes are eligible to receive payments from the trust fund.	The states are Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, and West Virginia.
noLabel	Since 1995, led by Congressional Republicans, the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate have moved several times to pass measures banning the procedure of intact dilation and extraction, also commonly known as partial birth abortion.	After several long and emotional debates on the issue, such measures passed twice by wide margins, but President Bill Clinton vetoed those bills in April 1996 and October 1997 on the grounds that they did not include health exceptions.
noLabel	She is a Republican, but when you check her votes on many issues, they are not ones that conservatives are happy with.	" "On fiscal issues, she is more loyal to her friends and special interests than to the people of Texas," according to Adrian Murray, president of the grassroots 912 Project Fort Worth. 
noLabel	In other cases, such as mongooses in Hawaii, the introduction is deliberate but ineffective (nocturnal rats were not vulnerable to the diurnal mongoose).	In other cases, such as oil palms in Indonesia and Malaysia, the introduction produces substantial economic benefits, but the benefits are accompanied by costly unintended consequences. 
noLabel	The motions, sponsored on behalf of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, aim to prohibit expression that would "fuel discrimination, extremism and misperception leading to polarization and fragmentation with dangerous unintended and unforeseen consequences."	Islamic states have expressed concerns that Islam is sometimes associated with terrorism and human rights violations, especially after the attack on the twin towers, and argue that the resolutions are necessary to combat Islamophobia .
noLabel	The Act also prohibited felons, those under indictment, fugitives, illegal aliens, drug users, those dishonorably discharged from the military, and those in mental institutions from owning guns .	The law also restricted importation of Saturday night specials and other types of guns, and limited the sale of automatic weapons and semi-automatic weapons conversion kits . 
noLabel	Zangwill thus combined the metaphor of the "crucible" or "melting pot" with a celebration of the United States as an ideal republic and a new promised land.	The prophetic words of his Jewish protagonist against the backdrop of the Statue of Liberty allude to Emma Lazarus's famous poem The New Colossus (1883), which celebrated the statue as a symbol of the United States' democracy and its identity as an immigrant nation .
noLabel	Kidneys naturally produce the hormone erythropoietin, which stimulates the growth of red blood cells that carry oxygen to the muscles and the brain.	When EPO is injected into the body, it helps increase the number of red blood cells, providing an athlete a lengthy and powerful energy boost, improving endurance by as much as 10 percent to 20 percent, experts said.
noLabel	In the early years of the state of Israel the term melting pot (כור היתוך) (also known as "Ingathering of the Exiles" - קיבוץ גלויות) was not a description of a process, but an official governmental doctrine of assimilating the Jewish immigrants that originally came from varying cultures.	(See Jewish ethnic divisions) This was performed on several levels, such as educating the younger generation (with the parents not having the final say) and (to mention an anecdotal one) encouraging and sometimes forcing the new citizens to adopt a Hebrew name. 
noLabel	Lobbying firm Patton Boggs reported drops in revenue during that year, from $12 million in 2010 to $11 million in 2011 .	To cope with the downturn, some law firms compensated by increasing activity in litigation, regulatory work, and representing clients in congressional investigations . 
noLabel	By 1992 most of the countries of the world had become committed to the principles of conservation of biological diversity with the Convention on Biological Diversity; subsequently many countries began programmes of Biodiversity Action Plans to identify and conserve threatened species within their borders, as well as protect associated habitats.	The late 1990s saw increasing professionalism in the sector, with the maturing of organisations such as the Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management and the Society for the Environment. 
noLabel	Quartet's decision met the criticism of the Quartet's former envoy, James Wolfensohn, who characterized it "a misguided attempt to starve the Hamas-led Palestinians into submission," and of UN's Middle East former envoy, Alvaro de Soto .	Because of the worsening human crisis, the EU proposed a plan to channel aid directly to the Palestinians, bypassing the Hamas-led PNA; the Quartet approved the proposal, despite the initial US reaction, and the EU set up a "temporary international mechanism" (TIM) to channel the money for an initial three-month period, which was later extended .
noLabel	That was the rather sad end of immigration enforcement as it had existed as part of the Immigration Service because, in April 2007, the Immigration Service itself was, if not physically disbanded, then discontinued as a distinct body.	The future of immigration enforcement was, until at least the time of writing in 2011, to be an adjunct of the general in-country immigration management structure rather than having a coordinating policy and organisational structure of its own. 
noLabel	It is related to the ancient (but not current) Catholic philosophies regarding monarchy, in which the monarch is God's viceregent upon the earth and therefore subject to no inferior power.	However, in Roman Catholic jurisprudence, the monarch is always subject to natural and divine law, which are regarded as superior to the monarch.
noLabel	After the discovery of nuclear fission in the late 1930s, scientists in the Soviet Union, like scientists all over the world, realized that nuclear reactions could, in theory, be used to release large amounts of binding energy from the atomic nucleus of uranium.	As in the West, the news of fission created great excitement amongst Soviet scientists and many physicists switched their lines of research to those involving nuclear physics in particular, as it was considered a promising field of research.
noLabel	On the orders of President Harry S. Truman, on 6 August of the same year a uranium-gun design bomb ("Little Boy") was used against the city of Hiroshima, Japan, and on 9 August a plutonium-implosion design bomb ("Fat Man") was used against the city of Nagasaki, Japan.	The two weapons killed approximately 250,000 Japanese civilians outright, and thousands more have died over the years from radiation sickness and related cancers.
noLabel	Ultimately, the Catholic James II was overthrown in the Glorious Revolution, and his successors, the Protestants William III and Mary II, accepted the conditions that were codified in the Bill.	One of the issues the Bill resolved was the authority of the King to disarm its subjects, after James II had attempted to disarm many Protestants, and had argued with Parliament over his desire to maintain a standing (or permanent) army .
noLabel	An earlier 1985 study of 1,800 incarcerated felons showed that criminals prefer revolvers and other non-semi-automatic firearms over semi-automatic firearms .	In Pittsburgh, a change in preferences towards pistols occurred in the early 1990s, coinciding with the arrival of crack cocaine and rise of violent youth gangs .
noLabel	Reproductive rights may include some or all of the following: the right to legal or safe abortion, the right to birth control, the right to access quality reproductive healthcare, and the right to education and access in order to make free and informed reproductive choices .	Reproductive rights may also include the right to receive education about contraception and sexually transmitted infections, and freedom from coerced sterilization, abortion, and contraception, and protection from gender-based practices such as female genital mutilation (FGM) and male genital mutilation (MGM) . 
noLabel	WikiLeaks has dropped a bombshell cache of U.S. diplomatic cables, ripping the cloak off scores of secret deals, including clandestine North Korean support for Iran and the North Korea, now embroiled in a knife’s edge confrontation with South Korea and the United States, was able to smuggle 19 advanced, Russian-designed missiles, capable of delivering nuclear payloads, to Iran, according to a February 24, 2010 cable detailing a meeting between Russian officials and a State Department nonproliferation expert.	The shipment of some R-27 components was widely known in intelligence circles, but the WikiLeaks disclosures represent the first confirmation that Iran now possesses complete missile systems.
noLabel	An estimated 350 million women in the poorest countries of the world either did not want their last child, do not want another child or want to space their pregnancies, but they lack access to information, affordable means and services to determine the size and spacing of their families.	In the developing world, some 514,000 women die annually of complications from pregnancy and abortion, with 86% of these deaths occurring in the sub-Saharan Africa region and South Asia .
noLabel	The New York Times article cited classified US intelligence reports asserting that Professor Mohsen Fakhrizadeh is in charge of the projects, while Iranian officials assert these projects are a fiction made up by the United States .	The article further reported that "while the international agency readily concedes that the evidence about the two projects remains murky, one of the documents it briefly displayed at a meeting of the agency's member countries in Vienna last year, from Mr. Fakrizadeh's projects, showed the chronology of a missile launching, ending with a warhead exploding about 650 yards above ground – approximately the altitude from which the bomb dropped on Hiroshima was detonated.
noLabel	There are usually more British golfers than Americans in the top 100 of the Official World Golf Ranking relative to population, that is to say more than a fifth as many, but Britain has not yet produced a major new golf star this century, although a number of British golfers have reached the world's top 10 in the early 2000s.	England's Lee Westwood ended Tiger Woods' five-year reign atop the rankings in autumn 2010, and fellow Englishman Luke Donald reached the top of the rankings in May 2011.
noLabel	" Former IAEA Director Mohamed ElBaradei said the Agency didn't have any information that nuclear material has been used and didn't have any information that any components of nuclear weapons had been manufactured .	Iran has asserted that the documents are a fabrication, while the IAEA has urged Iran to be more cooperative and Member States to provide more information about the allegations to be shared with Iran . 
noLabel	Some have multiple warheads and some have only a single small device, as the Prime Minister may feel constrained if the response were to be massively disproportionate to the threat .	This system is very similar to the US Navy's 14 Ohio-class SSBNs which each carry 24 Trident D5s armed with up to eight W76 or W88 nuclear warheads.
noLabel	Sandow became so successful at flexing and posing his physique, he later created several businesses around his fame and was among the first to market products branded with his name alone.	He was credited with inventing and selling the first exercise equipment for the masses (machined dumbbells, spring pulleys and tension bands) and even his image was sold by the thousands in "cabinet cards" and other prints. 
noLabel	The BBC reported that several hundred people had gathered in Yangon and that eyewitness reports said demonstrators were surrounded by security forces and pro-military vigilante groups.	United Nations Special Envoy Ibrahim Gambari arrived in Yangon and was due to fly immediately to Naypyidaw to talk with the junta generals.
noLabel	In an attempt to keep control of the process and prevent the Assembly from convening, Louis XVI ordered the closure of the Salle des États where the Assembly met, making an excuse that the carpenters needed to prepare the hall for a royal speech in two days.	Weather did not allow an outdoor meeting, so the Assembly moved their deliberations to a nearby indoor real tennis court, where they proceeded to swear the Tennis Court Oath (20 June 1789), under which they agreed not to separate until they had given France a constitution . 
noLabel	Lean mass builders are used to drive or amplify the growth of muscle and lean body mass, and sometimes to reduce body fat.	This class of drugs includes anabolic steroids, beta-2 agonists, selective androgen receptor modulators (SARMs), and various human hormones, most notably human growth hormone, as well as some of their precursors. 
noLabel	The numbered company that built it has no assets, so the condominium owners must suffer a large expense to rebuild it.	In this scenario, the senior officers of the numbered company, and its shareholders used the protection of a numbered limited liability company in order to take higher risks in the design and construction.
noLabel	The presence of EME confirms actual ingestion of cocaine by a human being, while the presence of BZ is indicative only.	BZ without EME is evidence of sample contamination, however, the US Department of Defense has chosen not to test for EME in its urinalysis program. 
noLabel	Deals can sometimes be negotiated to favor the developing country such as in China, where laws compel foreign multinationals to train their future Chinese competitors in strategic industries and render themselves redundant in the long term .	In Thailand, the 51 percent rule compels multinational corporations starting operations in Thailand give 51 percent control to a Thai company in a joint venture .
noLabel	 Irish Taoiseach Brian Cowen condemned the attacks, describing them as "very serious" and stated that he feels the blockade action was a violation of international law.	He also stated that people are allowed to receive humanitarian assistance and that there should be an international investigation into the matter, describing the Israeli action as "disproportionate".
noLabel	In August 2010, Republican Senators Tom Coburn and John McCain released a report listing 100 projects it described as the "most wasteful projects" funded by the Act.	In total, the projects questioned by the two senators amounted to about $15 billion, or less than 2% of the $862 billion.
noLabel	The  of the forum emphasized the commitment of the Alliance to the existing initiatives, as well as new ones, such as the Education about Religions and Beliefs; Alliance Fellowship Program; Dialogue Cafe; PLURAL +; Restore Trust, Rebuild Bridges; Mapping Media Education Policies in the World: Visions, Programs and Challenges; and the Alliance of Civilizations Research Network.	The Alliance also was able to establish partnership agreements with seven international networks, such as the International Organization for Migration, the Organisation of the Islamic Conference, the Ibero-American General Secretariat, the Anna Lindh Foundation, Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, the Community of Portuguese Speaking Countries and the Union Latine. 
noLabel	Two-party systems are states such as Jamaica, and Ghana in which there are two political parties dominant to such an extent that electoral success under the banner of any other party is almost impossible.	One right wing coalition party and one left wing coalition party is the most common ideological breakdown in such a system but in two-party states political parties are traditionally catch all parties which are ideologically broad and inclusive. 
noLabel	The Elizabethan Poor Law of 1601, one of the world's first government-sponsored welfare programs, made a clear distinction between those who were unable to work and those able-bodied people who refused employment .	Under the Poor Law systems of England and Wales, Scotland and Ireland a workhouse was a place where people who were unable to support themselves, could go to live and work .
noLabel	On April 3, 1987, the City of Beverly Hills, California, initiated an ordance to restrict smoking in most restaurants, in retail stores and at public meetings.	It exempted restaurants in hotels - City Council members reasoned that hotel restaurants catered to large numbers of visitors from abroad, where smoking is more acceptable than in the United States. 
noLabel	Hamas initially "vowed to fight on", and responded that any continued Israeli presence in Gaza would be regarded as an act of war.	Farzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman, said before the ceasefire began, "The occupier must halt his fire immediately and withdraw from our land and lift his blockade and open all crossings and we will not accept any one Zionist soldier on our land, regardless of the price that it costs.
noLabel	For example, during 2010 the incremental effect on GDP ranged between 1.1 and 4.6 percentage points, the unemployment rate was lowered between 0.7 and 2.0 percentage points, additional employed persons ranged from 1.3 million to 3.6 million, and the number of full time equivalent jobs added ranged from 1.8 million to 5.2 million.	Even after the Act spending stops in 2011, CBO estimated it will increase the number of people employed in 2012 by between 0.4 million and 1.1 million . 
noLabel	Habermas credits the creation of the bourgeois public sphere to two long-term historical trends: the rise of the modern nation state and the rise of capitalism.	The modern nation state in its consolidation of public power created by counterpoint a private realm of society independent of the state – allowing for the public sphere.
noLabel	These years are traditionally known as the Sixth Form ("Lower Sixth" and "Upper Sixth"), and require students to specialise in three to five subjects for their A Levels.	In ever-increasing numbers since the 1990s some students also undertake more vocational courses at college such as a BTEC or other such qualification. 
noLabel	In Europe in particular the rise of a 'new-right' politics motivated by such issues has been profound and many mainstream parties have hardened their stances towards asylum accordingly.	At the same time, however, political, ethnic and religious persecution remains widespread across the globe and the moral questions about the duty of states to give sanctuary to those in need retain huge emotive force.
noLabel	Defenders of the relative accuracy and reliability of the racial demographic component of crime statistics in the US point to international crime statistics showing remarkably similar results.	INTERPOL statistics on homicide, forcible rape and aggravated assault from the years 1984-1996 are reported to show the same racial disproportionality, with Asian and White populations rating consistently lower than Black populations.
noLabel	This is an issue which is hotly debated within the United Kingdom, with the Republic supporters actively campaigning for a democratic alternative to the Monarchy.	During William and Kate’s royal wedding the media picked up on the 'Not a Royal Wedding' street parties which took place in London.
noLabel	|- On December 27, an official government source stated that "Syria follows, with deep concern, the brutal Israeli aggression on the Palestinian people in Gaza and stresses that what is going on is a heinous crime and convicted terrorist act.	Syria condemns this appalling crime and calls on the Arab nations and the International community to use all available means to pressure Israel to stop this aggression immediately, allow the transfer of the injured and ensure them medical care, and open all crossings to allow the access of foodstuffs and health needs to the besieged Palestinian people".
noLabel	Banner ads can be targeted to internet users in many different ways in order to reach the advertiser's most relevant audience.	Behavioral retargeting, demographic targeting, geographic targeting, and site based targeting are all common ways in which advertisers choose to target their banner ads.
noLabel	the OFPRA (Office français pour la protection des réfugiés et apatrides – French Office for the Protection of Refugees and Stateless Persons ) now makes a list of allegedly "safe countries" which respect political rights and principles of liberty.	If the demander of asylum comes from such a country, the request is treated in 15 days, and receives no social assistance protection.
noLabel	The K12 curriculum has been adopted by a number of public independent study charter schools throughout the country (see, for example, the California Virtual Academies at http://www.k12.com/cava/, where students use the K12 curriculum for credit under the supervision of a credentialed teacher).	A number of other online high schools are also offering diplomas in many states, including some directed specifically at gifted students (see Stanford Online High School at http://epgy.stanford.edu/ohs/.
noLabel	Wasted votes are votes cast for losing candidates or votes cast for winning candidates in excess of the number required for victory.	For example, in the UK General Election of 2005, 52% of votes were cast for losing candidates and 18% were excess votes - a total of 70% wasted votes.
noLabel	In order to satisfy those who believe the distinction between good and evil is grounded on the existence of a divine law, the factual premise "evil exists" can be stated in the conditional form "if there is a perfect being, evil exists".	Since arguments from evil attempt to show that existence of evil in the world contradicts (or provides evidence against) the premises of orthodox theism, it suffices for the purpose of such arguments to think of evil as such "state of affairs that orthodox theists would agree are properly called evil" .
noLabel	Some of the second-generation renewables, such as wind power, have high potential and have already realised relatively low production costs .	Global wind power installations increased by 35,800 MW in 2010, bringing total installed capacity up to 194,400 MW, a 22.5% increase on the 158,700 MW installed at the end of 2009.
noLabel	This occurs because rational actors want to avoid nuclear wars, and thus they neither start major conflicts nor allow minor conflicts to escalate into major conflicts—thus making it safe to engage in minor conflicts.	For instance, during the Cold War the United States and the Soviet Union never engaged each other in warfare, but fought proxy wars in Korea, Vietnam, and Afghanistan and spent substantial amounts of money and manpower on gaining relative influence over the third world . 
noLabel	Fellows within the Cato Institute, such as Robert Levy, assert that the lawsuit that brought on the tobacco settlement was instigated by a need to make beneficiary payments to Medicare recipients.	Following the passage of laws that eliminated the tobacco companies' ability to provide evidence in court for their defense, the tobacco companies were forced to settle.
noLabel	An alternative Matric examination is offered by the Independent Examinations Board (IEB), a body representing various of the private schools in South Africa.	The IEB exams are considered by many teachers, parents, students and universities, both within South Africa and abroad, as more challenging than the state equivalent.
noLabel	Of the 12 commissioners who voted against the Stanley plan, two were from Arlington County, two were from Richmond, and one was from Norfolk .	At the end of the session, State Senator Charles Fenwick proposed a series of bills designed to harass the Virginia NAACP, which Fenwick and others believed had instigated the desegregation lawsuits . 
noLabel	Even before the California bill was signed into law, the ESA and the Video Software Dealers Association (VSDA), now known as the Entertainment Merchants Association (EMA), were preparing a lawsuit to overturn the law, fearing that the "violent video game" definition would affect many titles that the ESRB has otherwise labeled appropriate for younger players, and threaten to harm the video game industry .	The VSDA filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California and was later joined by the ESA.
noLabel	 The Foreign Affairs Ministry of Tunisia issued a statement saying "While reiterating its condemnation of all forms of collective punishment, Tunisia urges the international community, particularly influential forces to immediately intervene to lift the unjust blockade imposed on the Palestinian people in Gaza and to put an end to their suffering".	Tunisia added that it was "reaffirm[ing] its rejection of these hostile practices that are an affront to the international community and a violation of agreements and international and humanitarian resolutions, which threaten to further complicate the situation in the region and undermine any hope of peace" .
noLabel	According to recent (2009) estimates by IPN, over 2.5 million non-Jewish Polish citizens died as a result of the German occupation .	Over 90 percent of the death toll came through non-military losses, as most of the civilians were targeted by various deliberate actions by Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union . 
noLabel	It was a great mistake to suppose that the subjects of Zoology, Botany, and Geology did not involve much that affects our comfort, convenience, health and wealth.	" However, the article continues and discusses the dread of agricultural pests and the utility of understanding their natural history for the purpose of facilitating their destruction.
noLabel	They range widely from political assets such as the Bill of Rights, our political institutions and international friendships, to many economic assets which radiate worldwide from a highly productive domestic economy supported by rich natural resources.	It is the urgent need to protect valuables such as these which legitimizes and makes essential the role of national security.
noLabel	One common source of this equation are proponents of the concept of New anti-Semitism, such as Phyllis Chesler, Gabriel Schoenfeld and Mortimer Zuckerman, who argue that, since the 1967 Six day war, many criticisms of Israel are veiled attacks on Jews and hence are essentially antisemitic.	Another form of the equation, maintained by Abba Eban, Robert S. Wistrich, and Joschka Fischer, focuses on criticism of Zionism, and contends that some forms of anti-Zionism, particularly attacks on Israel's right to exist, are anti-Semitic in nature. 
noLabel	Within the domain of Continuing Education, professional continuing education is a specific learning activity generally characterized by the issuance of a certificate or continuing education units (CEU) for the purpose of documenting attendance at a designated seminar or course of instruction.	Licensing bodies in a number of fields impose continuing education requirements on members who hold licenses to practice within a particular profession.
noLabel	Incidents such as the Columbine High School massacre in 1999 have heightened concerns of a potential connection between video games and violent actions .	As such, many concerned groups including politicians and parents have sought to enact regulatory controls of video games to prevent their sales to youth .
noLabel	According to the Poker Players Alliance, a grass-roots organization for poker players, federal prosecutors ordered Citibank, Wells Fargo and Goldwater Bank and Alliance Bank of Arizona to freeze the accounts of Allied Systems and Account Services .	Allied Systems and Account Services are two of the account-management companies that Full Tilt Poker, Absolute Poker, Ultimate Bet and PokerStars use for the disbursement of funds .
noLabel	Author and FamilyLife Today radio host Dennis Rainey suggests four categories as useful in understanding current Protestant attitudes concerning birth control.	These are the "children in abundance" group, such as Quiverfull adherents who view all birth control and natural family planning as wrong; the "children in managed abundance" group, which accept only natural family planning; the "children in moderation" group which accepts prudent use of a wide range of contraceptives; and, the "no children" group which sees itself as within their Biblical rights to define their lives around non-natal concerns . 
noLabel	She focused on other aspects of the government, but was a feminist by virtue of the fact that she was a woman working to influence the world.	Her personal letters to leaders of the Revolution influenced policy; in addition, she often hosted political gatherings of the Brissotins, a political group which allowed women to join.
noLabel	In December 2008 200 Turkish intellectuals and academics issued an apology for the ethnic cleansing of Armenians during World War I, an event that most Western historians view as amounting to a genocide .	At a conference of Hellenes victims of ethnic cleansing, held in February 2011 in Nicosia, an apology was demanded  . 
noLabel	The Turkish Airlines aircraft transporting them landed at a Turkish Air Force base, after which the injured were taken by ambulance to hospital .	Two seriously injured activists remained in an Israeli hospital receiving treatment from Turkish Red Crescent personnel, as their condition was judged too severe to fly them home.
noLabel	In July 2010, Israel's foreign minister Avigdor Lieberman proposed an initiative to shift full responsibility over the Gaza Strip to the international community.	He announced that he plans to discuss the idea, which was labeled a "personal initiative" with the EU Foreign Minister Catherine Ashton . 
noLabel	The entrepreneurial model looks at either the individual criminal, or a smaller group of organised criminals, that capitalise off the more fluid 'group-association' of contemporary organised crime .	This model conforms to social learning theory or differential association in that there are clear associations and interaction between criminals where knowledge may be shared, or values enforced, however it is argued that rational choice is not represented in this.
noLabel	Of adolescents engaging in oral sex only, girls were twice as likely as boys to report feeling bad about themselves and nearly three times as likely to feel used .	Boys who engaged in oral sex were more than twice as likely as girls to report feeling more popular and confident .
noLabel	The initial three-stage design was capable of yielding the power of approximately 100 Mt, but would have caused too much radioactive fallout.	To limit fallout, the third stage and possibly the second stage had a lead tamper instead of a uranium-238 fusion tamper (which greatly amplifies the reaction by fissioning uranium atoms with fast neutrons from the fusion reaction).
noLabel	Where one person is head of state of multiple sovereign countries (such as in a personal union), there may be need to appoint a permanent representative in each (or excepting in the head of state's country of primary residence).	Examples include Commonwealth realms where the individual who acts as their respective monarch resides in the oldest realm, the United Kingdom, and so is represented in the others by an appointed governor-general (unhyphenated in Canada as governor general) and Andorra which is headed by two non-resident co-princes, one of which is also the President of France. 
noLabel	These include not only communities of ethnic, regional, religious, civic (the provincial and municipal governments) and civil associational sorts, but also national communities.	Blattberg argues that Canada is a multi-national country, one that contains at least three nations within it: Francophone Canadians, the Aboriginal nations, and English-speaking Canada. 
noLabel	However, this system did not include the Big Ten and Pac-10 champions, as both were obligated to play in the Rose Bowl.	The Coalition made several unsuccessful attempts to get the Tournament of Roses Association, which operates the Rose Bowl, to release the Big Ten and Pac-10 champions if necessary to force a championship game.
noLabel	Several aid trucks began making it into Gaza during the following morning including some carrying power generators from the Egyptian Red Crescent, and hundreds of Gazans who had been staying in Egypt returned home, although little traffic, human or cargo, flowed from Gaza to Egypt .	On 3 June, the manager of the Gaza side of the Rafah crossing, Salameh Barakeh, explained that the crossing is open for the free travel of patients, foreign passport holders, those with residency status in other countries, students and internationals .
noLabel	Smoking increases the risk of symptoms associated with Crohn's disease (a dose-dependent effect with use of greater than 15 cigarettes per day) .	There is some evidence for decreased rates of endometriosis in infertile smoking women, although other studies have found that smoking increases the risk in infertile women .
noLabel	Israel said humanitarian aid confiscated from the ships would be transferred to Gaza, but that it would not transfer banned items such as cement .	At the same briefing, they said that they found construction equipment, including concrete and metal rods, that were not allowed into Gaza.
noLabel	The basic principle of the Teller–Ulam configuration is the idea that different parts of a thermonuclear weapon can be chained together in "stages", with the detonation of each stage providing the energy to ignite the next stage.	At a bare minimum, this implies a primary section which consists of a fission bomb (a "trigger"), and a secondary section which consists of fusion fuel.
noLabel	A proprietary application programming interface (API) is a software library interface "specific to one device or, more likely to a number of devices within a particular manufacturer's product range.	" The motivation for using a proprietary API can be vendor lock-in or because standard APIs do not support the device's functionality . 
noLabel	Michelle Rhee remains a highly controversial figure in the field of education due to her aggressive style of reform and what some believe to be anti-union sentiments.	Another common criticism disputes her claim that she dramatically increased students' average scores from the 13th percentile to the 90th, a claim that could not be verified during her confirmation process for D.C. Schools Chancellor as the relevant Baltimore records could not be located .
noLabel	Its share of the vote has increased greatly, due in part to the new funding formula, in part because it ran in many more ridings than in previous elections (it nominated candidates in every riding in the 2004 and 2006 elections), and in part to increased popularity.	Thus the argument goes that if there is sufficient national support to earn official recognition as a party (i.e., one that is granted funding based on getting 2% or more of the national vote) it should also be allowed to debate on the same level as the other officially recognized parties. 
noLabel	Schools in India range from schools with large campuses with thousands of students and hefty fees to schools where children are taught under a tree with a small / no campus and are totally free of cost.	There are various boards of schools in India, namely Central Board for Secondary Education (CBSE), Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), Madrasa Boards of various states, Matriculation Boards of various states, State Boards of various boards, Anglo Indian Board, and so on.
noLabel	For example, a person with insurance against automobile theft may be less cautious about locking their car, because the negative consequences of vehicle theft are now (partially) the responsibility of the insurance company.	A party makes a decision about how much risk to take, while another party bears the costs if things go badly, and the party insulated from risk behaves differently from how it would if it were fully exposed to the risk. 
noLabel	Economists such as Martin Feldstein, Daron Acemoğlu, National Economic Council director Larry Summers, and Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences winners Joseph Stiglitz and Paul Krugman favored large economic stimulus to counter the economic downturn.	While in favor of a stimulus package, Feldstein expressed concern over the act as written, saying it needed revision to address consumer spending and unemployment more directly .
noLabel	John Paul II's position against artificial birth control, including the use of condoms to prevent the spread of HIV, was harshly criticised by doctors and AIDS activists, who said that it led to countless deaths and millions of AIDS orphans .	Critics have also claimed that large families are caused by lack of contraception and exacerbate Third World poverty and problems such as street children in South America. 
noLabel	" Both Jefferson and George Mason advised limits on reelection to the Senate and to the Presidency, because said Mason, "nothing is so essential to the preservation of a Republican government as a periodic rotation."	The historian Mercy Otis Warren, warned that "there is no provision for a rotation, nor anything to prevent the perpetuity of office in the same hands for life; which by a little well timed bribery, will probably be done.." .
noLabel	At the same time, the UK government indicated that warheads "required to provide a necessary processing margin and for technical surveillance purposes" were not included in the "fewer than 200" figure .	However, as recently declassified archived documents on Chevaline make clear, the 15% excess (referred to by SIPRI as for spares) is normally intended to provide the 'necessary processing margin', and 'surveillance rounds do not contain any nuclear material, being completely inert.
noLabel	IDF sources added later that the shells had been fired to create cover to assist in the extrication of IDF troops, some of whom were wounded, from an area where Hamas held a superior position .	An Israeli Government spokesman stated that in this particular case they had found no evidence of criminal wrongdoing and so had not referred the case to criminal investigation . 
noLabel	They promised to continue to challenge President Obama to stand by his 2008 call to "be the generation that finally frees America from the tyranny of oil" as he entered the 2012 reelection campaign.	A relatively broad coalition came together, including the Republican governor Dave Heineman and senators Ben Nelson (D) and Mike Johanns (R) from Nebraska, and some Democratic funders like Susie Tompkins Buell . 
noLabel	The normal radio broadcast warning was given to the people that it might be advisable to go to air-raid shelters if B-29s were actually sighted.	However a reconnaissance mission was assumed because at 07:31 the first B29 to fly over Hiroshima at had been the weather observation aircraft Straight Flush that sent a morse code message to the Enola Gay indicating that the weather was good over the primary target.
noLabel	Often, the medicine ends up affecting the economy only after its disease has been cured, leaving the economy with side-effects such as inflation.	For example, President John F. Kennedy proposed tax cuts in response to the high unemployment of 1960, but these were instituted only in 1964 and impacted the economy only in 1965 or 1966 and the increased debt encouraged inflation, reinforcing the effect of Vietnam war deficit spending.
noLabel	VHEMT rejects government-mandated human population control programs in favor of voluntary population reduction, supporting only the use of birth control and willpower to prevent pregnancies .	Knight states that coercive tactics are unlikely to permanently lower the human population, citing the fact that humanity has survived catastrophic wars, famines, and viruses.
noLabel	It is common now for 10-year-olds to be forced to specialize in one sport, to play it year-round on costly traveling all-star teams with only a brief respite so they can attend exclusive summer camps.	Part of the allure of athletics has always been the idea that anyone, regardless of background or means, can make it to the highest level of competition even if it might take extraordinary devotion and luck.
noLabel	Memory loss, the most common cognitive impairment among head-injured people, occurs in 20–79% of people with closed head trauma, depending on severity .	Post-traumatic amnesia (PTA), a confusional state with impaired memory, is characterized by loss of specific memories or the partial inability to form or store new ones . 
noLabel	The United States was generally seen as having the least stringent anti-gun rights laws in the developed world, with the possible exception of Switzerland, in part due to the strength of the gun lobby, particularly the NRA .	The NRA historically supported gun laws intended to prevent criminals from obtaining firearms, while opposing new restrictions that affected law-abiding citizens. 
noLabel	They want a Senator who will walk the parade routes, visit the county fairs and festivals, and who will eat pork tenderloin and an ear of corn.	They told me over and over again that they want a Senator who comes back home .” He also released results from a poll conducted by Wilson Research Strategies on behalf of Mourdock.
noLabel	This theodicy was developed by the second-century Christian theologian, Irenaeus of Lyons, and its most recent and outspoken advocate has been the influential philosopher of religion, John Hick.	A perceived inadequacy with the Irenaean theodicy is that many natural evils do not seem to promote this, such as the suffering of young children.
noLabel	The Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign is an organization in the United States working to secure freedom from poverty for all by organizing the poor themselves.	The Campaign believes that a human rights framework, based on the value of inherent dignity and worth of all persons, offers the best means by which to organize for a political solution to poverty.Makes camps of antipoverty.
noLabel	Parliamentary approval has been granted for referenda to be held in Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Coventry, Leeds, Manchester, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Nottingham, Sheffield and Wakefield .	The government had also intended to hold referenda on whether or not to introduce directly-elected mayors in Leicester and Liverpool, however before the government could order these referendums, the two city councils had already decided to adopt a mayoral system themselves.
noLabel	On August 15, 2010 The Observer reported that the gap between the A Level achievement at private schools and that at state schools in the UK was set to widen, with three times as many privately educated students achieving the new grade A*.	The paper also noted that according to the fair access watchdog bright students from the poorest backgrounds are seven times less likely to go to a top university than their richer peers .
noLabel	Historically, the word has often been used pejoratively and Ishihara's statement brought images of the massacre of Koreans by civilians and police alike after the 1923 Great Kanto earthquake to mind.	Therefore, the use of the term in context of potential rioting by foreigners is considered by many as provocative, if not explicitly racist.
noLabel	In 2003, several Democratic congressmen (Charles Rangel of New York, Jim McDermott of Washington, John Conyers of Michigan, John Lewis of Georgia, Pete Stark of California, Neil Abercrombie of Hawaii) introduced legislation that would draft both men and women into either military or civilian government service, should there be a draft in the future.	The Republican majority leadership suddenly considered the bill, nine months after its introduction, without a report from the Armed Services Committee (to which it had been referred), and just one month prior to the 2004 presidential and congressional elections.
noLabel	In the late eighteenth and early nineteenth century Germany, three pioneer physical educators&nbsp;– Johann Friedrich GutsMuths (1759–1839) and Friedrich Ludwig Jahn (1778–1852)&nbsp;– created exercises for boys and young men on apparatus they had designed that ultimately led to what is considered modern gymnastics.	Don Francisco Amoros y Ondeano, marquis de Sotelo, was born on February 19, 1770 in Valence and died on August 8, 1848 in Paris.
noLabel	However, when the states ratified the Constitution (1787–88), several leading statesmen regarded the lack of mandatory limits to tenure as a dangerous defect, especially, they thought, as regards the Presidency and the Senate.	Richard Henry Lee viewed the absence of legal limits to tenure, together with certain other features of the Constitution, as "most highly and dangerously oligarchic.
noLabel	Before the development of a capable strategic missile force in the Soviet Union, much of the war-fighting doctrine held by western nations revolved around using a large number of smaller nuclear weapons used in a tactical role.	It is debatable whether such use could be considered "limited" however, because it was believed that the US would use their own strategic weapons (mainly bombers at the time) should the USSR deploy any kind of nuclear weapon against civilian targets.
noLabel	|- The government of the SADR condemned the massacre in the Gaza strip, considering that "the use of force, the policy of colonial occupation, killing and terror against defenseless citizens are contrary to morals, laws and customs of the humanity and are in contradiction with international legality.".	Basing on that, the Sahrawi government "expresses its solidarity with the Palestinian people in the tragedy subsequent to the massacre perpetrated by Israeli forces against Palestinians in Gaza Strip, and supports their battle to defend their independence and territorial sovereignty" .
noLabel	Romney was expected to virtually clinch the nomination with a win in South Carolina, but Gingrich, who is from neighboring Georgia, waged an aggressive and successful campaign winning all but one of the states congressional districts.	" Gingrich victory in South Carolina together with two strong debate performances gave him a second surge, opening the race to a longer and more unpredictable campaign. 
noLabel	When Dawkins points out that the term is used in a technical sense and describes evolution as a fact, Gluck suggests he's a “fundamentalist believer”.	However, when Dawkins asks Gluck how many children from his school have grown up believing in evolution, Gluck is lost for words, and eventually admits that most of them probably don't. 
noLabel	In February 2006 Irving was arrested in Austria, where Holocaust denial is illegal, for a speech he had made in 1989 in which he denied the existence of gas chambers at Auschwitz .	Irving was aware of the outstanding arrest warrant, but chose to go to Austria anyway "to give a lecture to a far-right student fraternity.
noLabel	Since there are a number of different theistic ideas relating to the nature of God(s), Dawkins defines the concept of God that he wishes to address early in the book.	Dawkins distinguishes between an abstract, impersonal god (such as found in pantheism, or as promoted by Spinoza or Einstein) from a personal God who is the creator of the universe, who is interested in human affairs, and who should be worshipped .
noLabel	Integration, on the other hand, Professor Oscar Handlin maintains, implies several things not yet necessarily accepted in all areas of American society.	In one sense it refers to the "levelling of all barriers to association other than those based on ability, taste, and personal preference"; in other words, providing equal opportunity.
noLabel	The role of the Emperor of Japan has historically alternated between a largely ceremonial symbolic role and that of an actual imperial ruler.	Since the establishment of the first shogunate in 1192, the emperors of Japan have rarely taken on a role as supreme battlefield commander, unlike many Western monarchs.
noLabel	|- 2004 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas PC, PlayStation 2, Xbox Rockstar Games An unauthorized "Hot Coffee" mod unlocked a hidden sex scene left out of the game's final version.	Was briefly re-rated "Adults Only" by the ESRB, but had a "Mature" rating reinstated after Rockstar Games removed this scene from the game's code in a different version .
noLabel	As the towns and cities of the Middle Ages began to grow, and the general populace was unable to read, signs that today would say cobbler, miller, tailor or blacksmith would use an image associated with their trade such as a boot, a suit, a hat, a clock, a diamond, a horse shoe, a candle or even a bag of flour.	Fruits and vegetables were sold in the city square from the backs of carts and wagons and their proprietors used street callers (town criers) to announce their whereabouts for the convenience of the customers. 
noLabel	The sexual revolution can be seen as an outgrowth of a process in recent history, though its roots may be traced back as far as the Enlightenment (Marquis de Sade) and the Victorian era (Algernon Charles Swinburne's scandalous Poems and Ballads of 1866).	It was a development in the modern world which saw the significant loss of power by the values of a morality rooted in the Christian tradition and the rise of permissive societies, of attitudes that were accepting of greater sexual freedom and experimentation that spread all over the world and were captured in the phrase free love. 
noLabel	USADA's status and operation independent from the USOC is significant and contrasts the norm in the United States in which most professional sport organizations (MLB, NFL, NBA, NHL) manage the anti-doping aspects of their sports.	The main benefits of using an independent organization are: 1) An independent organization can focus fully on anti-doping matters, and 2) An independent organization removes any potential or perceived conflicts of interest.
noLabel	A person with a moderate or severe TBI may have a headache that does not go away, repeated vomiting or nausea, convulsions, an inability to awaken, dilation of one or both pupils, slurred speech, aphasia (word-finding difficulties), dysarthria (muscle weakness that causes disordered speech), weakness or numbness in the limbs, loss of coordination, confusion, restlessness, or agitation .	Common long-term symptoms of moderate to severe TBI are changes in appropriate social behavior, deficits in social judgment, and cognitive changes, especially problems with sustained attention, processing speed, and executive functioning .
noLabel	As Europeans began to colonize the New World in the 16th and 17th centuries, Native Americans increasingly became the targets of bias-motivated intimidation and violence.	During the past two centuries, some of the more typical examples of hate crimes in the U.S. include lynchings of African Americans, cross burnings to drive black families from predominantly white neighborhoods, assaults on white people traveling in predominantly black neighborhoods, assaults on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, the painting of swastikas on Jewish synagogues and xenophobic responses to a variety of minority ethnic groups . 
noLabel	Athletics does not have a very high profile in Britain on a week-in week-out basis, but it leaps to prominence during major championships.	The level of attention received by successful British athletes is illustrated by the fact that athletes have won far more BBC Sports Personality of the Year awards than practitioners of any other sport.
noLabel	As a result, notably in certain teams sports such as Association Football and Rugby, but also in the multi-sport Commonwealth Games, international sporting events are contested not by a team representing the United Kingdom, but by teams representing the separate "home nations".	At Olympic level, however, the United Kingdom is represented by a single national organising committee the British Olympic Association, and competes as Great Britain and Northern Ireland (although some Northern Ireland athletes are eligible for, and compete on behalf of, Ireland). 
noLabel	In this line of reasoning, critics contend that lobbying, in and of itself, is not the sole problem, but only one aspect of a larger problem with American governance.	Critics point to an interplay of factors: citizens being uninvolved politically; congresspersons needing huge sums of money for expensive television advertising campaigns; increased complexity in terms of technologies; congresspersons spending three days of every week raising money; and so forth.
noLabel	Scholars have pointed out that countries that specifically ban Holocaust denial generally have legal systems that limit speech in other ways, such as banning hate speech.	According to D. Guttenplan, this is a split between the "common law countries of the United States, Ireland and many British Commonwealth countries from the civil law countries of continental Europe and Scotland.
noLabel	The report, entitled "Opportunities for Education, Employment, and Training", was written by an economic policy group backed by the governor of Puerto Rico.	This report explains alternatives for decreasing the Puerto Rican working class and a high unemployment rate was noted in the report as Puerto Rico's main problem . 
noLabel	According to a Pew Research poll in March 2010, 31% of Republicans would be willing to decrease military spending to bring down the deficit.	A majority of Democrats (55%) and 46% of Independents say they would accept cuts in military spending to reduce the deficit . 
noLabel	Protest turned violent when 100 began throwing Molotov cocktails, stones and fired fireworks, 4 were arrested .Several thousand peacefully protested outside Israeli embassy on January 3 .The Blitz movement and Palestine Committee protested on January 4 outside the Israeli embassy.	Protest turned violent, and police dispersed the protest using tear gas, after deeming it illegal .On January 8, a counter-protest was held by pro-Palestinian supporters in response to the pro-Israeli demonstration outside the Storting.
noLabel	Mr. Canseco's book set off the Congressional inquiry after baseball officials said they would not investigate any of the charges in it, said Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California and the committee's ranking minority member.	Mr. Canseco had written that baseball should embrace the potential of steroids, but he said Thursday that he had changed his mind.
noLabel	The B83 is one of the weapons considered for use in the "Nuclear Bunker Buster" project, which for a time was known as the Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator, or RNEP.	While most efforts have focused on the smaller B61-11 nuclear bomb, Los Alamos National Laboratory was also analyzing the use of the B83 in this role. 
noLabel	The first US law adopted specifically to protect whistleblowers was the 1863 United States False Claims Act (revised in 1986), which tried to combat fraud by suppliers of the United States government during the Civil War.	The act encourages whistleblowers by promising them a percentage of the money recovered or damages won by the government and protects them from wrongful dismissal . 
noLabel	In the Americas as well as in Arabic countries the pauses between words are usually not too long, while in India and Japan pauses can give a contradictory sense to the spoken words.	Enduring silence is perceived as perfectly comfortable in India, Indonesia and Japan, to the point where being unnecessarily talkative is considered rude and a sign of poor self-control.
noLabel	Index on Censorship is a founding member of the International Freedom of Expression Exchange, a global network of non-governmental organisations that monitors censorship worldwide and defends journalists, writers, Internet users and others who are persecuted for exercising their right to freedom of expression.	It is also a member of the Tunisia Monitoring Group, a coalition of 16 free expression organisations that lobbies the Tunisian government to improve its human rights record.
noLabel	In 2010, in a rare move due to its perceived impact on stability, Li Jinhua, vice-chairman of the national committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference and former long-serving auditor general of the National Audit Office, fired a warning shot in the People's Daily, calling for better legal structures and greater supervision over the business dealings of officials and their children.	He said the rapidly growing wealth of Communist officials’ children and family members "is what the public is most dissatisfied about" . 
noLabel	However, in recent years a large proportion of such Ph.D.s—ranging from 30 percent to 60 percent—have been unable to obtain tenure-track jobs.	They must choose between adjunct positions, which are poorly paid and lack job security; teaching jobs in community colleges or in high schools, where little research is done; the non-academic job market, where they will tend to be overqualified; or some other course of study, such as law or business. 
noLabel	Professional boxing remains by far the most popular form of the sport globally, though amateur boxing is dominant in Cuba and some former Soviet republics.	For most fighters, an amateur career, especially at the Olympics, serves to develop skills and gain experience in preparation for a professional career.
noLabel	A small constituency with a single member, as opposed to a large, multiple-member one, encourages a stronger connection between representative and constituent and increases accountability.	In multi-member district countries such as Israel, where the whole country is treated as a single constituency and representatives are selected by party-lists, the constituency link is lost altogether. 
noLabel	Despite a number of claims, there is no credible evidence that any terrorist group has yet succeeded in obtaining a nuclear bomb or the materials needed to make one .	In 2004, Graham Allison, U.S. Assistant Secretary of Defense during the Clinton administration, wrote that “on the current path, a nuclear terrorist attack on America in the decade ahead is more likely than not" .
noLabel	YouTube: The YouTube Terms of Service include the statements: "YouTube reserves the right to decide whether Content violates these Terms of Service for reasons other than copyright infringement, such as, but not limited to, pornography, obscenity, or excessive length.	YouTube may at any time, without prior notice and in its sole discretion, remove such Content and/or terminate a user's account for submitting such material in violation of these Terms of Service", "YouTube will remove all Content if properly notified that such Content infringes on another's intellectual property rights", and "YouTube reserves the right to remove Content without prior notice" .
noLabel	The amount of nicotine absorbed by the body from smoking depends on many factors, including the types of tobacco, whether the smoke is inhaled, and whether a filter is used.	For chewing tobacco, dipping tobacco, snus and snuff, which are held in the mouth between the lip and gum, or taken in the nose, the amount released into the body tends to be much greater than smoked tobacco.
noLabel	A new (in 2009) nongovernmental human-rights conference is the Oslo Freedom Forum, a gathering described by The Economist as "on its way to becoming a human-rights equivalent of the Davos economic forum."	The same article noted that human-rights advocates are more and more divided amongst themselves over how violations of human rights are to be defined, notably as regards the Middle East . 
noLabel	The Catholic Church takes views on political issues, and tries to influence legislation (affecting all the residents of a country, not just Catholics) on matters it considers relevant.	for example, the Catholic bishops in the United States adopted a plan in the 1970s calling for efforts aimed at a constitutional amendment providing "protection for the unborn child to the maximum degree possible".
noLabel	The Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) proposed "The People's Budget" in April 2011, which it claimed would balance the budget by 2021 while maintaining debt as a % GDP under 65%.	It proposed reversing most of the Bush tax cuts; higher income tax rates on the wealthy and restoring the estate tax, investing in a jobs program, and reducing defense spending . 
noLabel	Pope Benedict XVI has criticised some harm reduction policies with regards to HIV/AIDS, saying that "if the soul is lacking, if Africans do not help one another, the scourge [of HIV] cannot be resolved by distributing condoms; quite the contrary, we risk worsening the problem" .	Whilst this position has been widely denounced for misrepresenting and oversimplifying the role of condoms in preventing infections, there has been expert scientific opinion and evidence supporting it . 
noLabel	In a close-to-100% wind scenario, surplus wind power can be allowed for by increasing the levels of the existing Reserve and Frequency Service schemes and by extending the scheme to domestic-sized loads.	Energy can be stored by advancing deferrable domestic loads such as storage heaters, water heaters, fridge motors, or even hydrogen production, and load can be shed by turning such equipment off. 
noLabel	In the 2008 general election, Jewish voters in Florida and Pittsburgh were targeted by a push poll attempting to disparage Barack Obama by linking him with the Palestinian Liberation Organization.	The Jewish Council for Education & Research, an organization that has endorsed Obama, denounced the push-poll as misinformation and lies . 
noLabel	Ali was named the second greatest fighter in boxing history by ESPN.com behind only welterweight and middleweight great Sugar Ray Robinson .	In December 2007, ESPN listed Ali second in its choice of the greatest heavyweights of all time, behind Joe Louis . 
noLabel	The Reform Movement has acted to oppose legislation that would restrict the right of women to choose to abort a fetus, especially in situations in which the health of the woman is endangered by continued pregnancy.	This pro-choice position has been linked by some Reform authorities to the value that Reform Judaism places upon autonomy—the right of individuals to act as moral agents on their own behalf.
noLabel	Because few clinical trials and no meta-analyses have been completed, research is still in the preliminary stages for excessive gaming treatment.	The most effective treatments seem to be, as with addictions or dependencies, a combination of psychopharmacology, psychotherapy and twelve-step programs .
noLabel	On January 19, 2009, the al-Aqsa Martyrs Brigades, the military wing of Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas's Fatah party, published a statement listing its claimed attacks on Israel, including claimed rocket and mortar attacks on Sderot and Ashkelon.	The group stated that the attacks were carried out "to defend our people in the Gaza Strip" and "to defend the Gaza Strip in the face of Zionist arrogance", but did not elaborate further . 
noLabel	There have been cases of abuse against the female illegal immigrants committed by the Bedouin smugglers, including rape and other degrations.	Another danger lurking for the illegal immigrants is the Egyptian army policy to shoot at them in order to prevent crossing the Egypt/Israel border .
noLabel	The United States should also join the other permanent members of the United Nations Security Council — Britain, France, Russia and China — in urging Israel to permanently lift the blockade.	" Another editorial said "Turkey is understandably furious" but "Turkish officials have let their anger and rhetoric go way too far.. Israel deserves to be criticized for the flotilla disaster.
noLabel	"Time-use surveys may reveal relatively little time devoted to unpaid direct care activities [because] the demands of subsistence production in those countries are great", and may not take into account multitasking – for example, a mother may collect wood fuel while a child is in the same location, so the child is in her care (an indirect form of care work).	It is usually argued that indirect care should be included, and it is in may time use studies, however, it may not be and as a result studies may undercount the amount of certain types of unpaid work.
noLabel	Investigation of retaliation against whistleblowers under 20 federal statutes falls under the jurisdiction of the Office of the Whistleblower Protection Program of the United States Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) .	New whistleblower statutes enacted by Congress which are to be enforced by the Secretary of Labor are generally delegated by a Secretary's Order to OSHA's Office of the Whistleblower Protection Program (OWPP). 
noLabel	Because voters can vote in the first round for a candidate from any political party, the nonpartisan blanket primary has been compared to the original blanket primary used briefly in California, which in 2000 was ruled unconstitutional in California Democratic Party v. Jones because it forced political parties to associate with candidates they did not endorse.	However, the nonpartisan blanket primary disregards party preference in determining the two candidates to advance to the general election, and for that reason has been ruled facially constitutional by the Supreme Court in the 2008 decision Washington State Grange v. Washington State Republican Party . 
noLabel	The Flag Desecration Amendment, often referred to as the flag burning amendment, is a controversial proposed constitutional amendment to the United States Constitution that would allow the United States Congress to statutorily prohibit expression of political views through the physical desecration of the flag of the United States.	The concept of flag desecration continues to provoke a heated debate over protecting a national symbol, protecting free speech, and protecting the liberty represented by a national symbol. 
noLabel	Unanticipated fallout and radiation also affected many of the vessels and personnel involved in the test, in some cases trapping them in bunkers.	One prominent scientist later recalled that he was on a ship away, and received 10 röntgen of radiation as a result.
noLabel	Despite an international movement demanding clemency, and appeals to President Dwight D. Eisenhower by leading European intellectuals and the Pope, the Rosenbergs were executed at the height of the Korean War.	President Eisenhower wrote to his son, serving in Korea, that if he spared Ethel (presumably for the sake of her children), then the Soviets would simply recruit their spies from among women . 
noLabel	Freedom of the press is an extremely problematic problem/concept for most non-democratic systems of government since, in the modern age, strict control of access to information is critical to the existence of most non-democratic governments and their associated control systems and security apparatus.	To this end, most non-democratic societies employ state-run news organizations to promote the propaganda critical to maintaining an existing political power base and suppress (often very brutally, through the use of police, military, or intelligence agencies) any significant attempts by the media or individual journalists to challenge the approved "government line" on contentious issues.
noLabel	Edward Teller, perhaps the most ardent supporter of the development of the hydrogen bomb, was in Berkeley, California at the time of the shot.	He was able to receive first notice that the test was successful by observing a seismometer, which picked up the shock wave that traveled through the earth from the Western Pacific test site .
noLabel	Reporters in the western media have also suggested that China's internet censorship of foreign websites may also be a means of forcing mainland Chinese users to rely on China's own e-commerce industry, thus self-insulating their economy (for example censorship of large game sites such as newgrounds.com which have no political agenda) .	In 2011 although China-based users of many Google services such as Google+ did not always find the services entirely blocked, they were nonetheless throttled such that users could be expected to become frustrated with the frequent timeouts and switch to the faster, more reliable services of Chinese competitors .
noLabel	" The Assistant Secretary of State went on to note, "At the same time, Pakistan has to make sure that in taking any particular action, that you’re not restricting speech to the millions and millions of people who are connected to the internet and have a universal right to the free flow of information.	" On May 22, 2010, the Ambassador to the United States from Pakistan, Hussain Haqqani, formally issued a complaint to the U.S., in communications with U.S. Special Representative Richard Holbrooke .
noLabel	In the failed motion to proceed to consider the legislation, 51 Democrats voted in favor of opening debate on the legislation and 47 Republicans Senators, joined by 2 Democratic Senators (Joseph Lieberman & Ben Nelson) voted no .	The $60 billion bill investing in roads, bridges and infrastructure, would have been paid with a 0.7% tax on Americans earning more than $1 million per year . 
noLabel	As early as December 1945, politicians worried about the possibility of smuggling nuclear weapons into the United States, though this was still in the context of a battle between the superpowers of the Cold War.	Congressmen quizzed the "father of the atomic bomb," J. Robert Oppenheimer, about the possibility of detecting a smuggled atomic bomb: .
noLabel	It was not until 1941, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt issued an executive order forbidding discrimination in employment by a company working under a government defense contract, that economic discrimination took on the overtones it has today, which is discrimination against minorities.	By 1960 anti-trust laws and interstate commerce laws had effectively regulated inter-corporate discrimination so problematic in the late 19th century and early 20th century, but the problem of discrimination on an economic basis against minorities had become widespread.
noLabel	Swedish filmmakers like Ingmar Bergman and Vilgot Sjöman contributed to sexual liberation with sexually themed films that challenged conservative international standards.	The 1951 film Hon dansade en sommar (She Danced a Summer AKA One Summer of Happiness) starring Ulla Jacobsson and Folke Sundquist was notable in this regard for depicting explicit nudity. 
noLabel	This section covers members and their spouses found beyond the first nine corner cells on the table of consanguinity or cousin chart.	Although some of the relations seem distant, they are considered close relatives and it is common for Chinese families to have regular contact with these members. 
noLabel	The status of the embryo is also indicated by its treatment as "an appendage of its mother" (ubar yerekh 'imo Hullin 58a) for such matters as ownership, maternal conversion and purity law .	In even more evocative language, the Talmud states in a passage on priestly rules that the fetus "is considered to be mere water" until its 40th day . 
noLabel	It is applied especially to the practice or advocacy of racial discrimination of a pernicious nature (i.e., which harms particular groups of people), and which is often justified by recourse to racial stereotyping or pseudo-science.	Racism is popularly associated with various activities that are illegal or commonly considered harmful, such as extremism, hatred, xenophobia, (malignant or forced) exploitation, separatism, racial supremacy, mass murder (for the purpose of genocide), genocide denial, vigilantism (hate crimes, terrorism), etc. 
noLabel	This method is more cost effective, and therefore more prevalent on the inner-city streets, while powder cocaine remains more popular in white suburbia.	Seeing an opportunity, the Reagan administration began shoring public opinion against “crack,” encouraging DEA official Robert Putnam to play up the harmful effects of the drug.
noLabel	In December 1995, Peter Jepson and Roger Dyas-Elliott, prevented from standing on Labour shortlists because of their gender, challenged the policy in court .	Supported by the Equal Opportunities Commission, they claimed that they had been illegally barred from applying to be considered to represent the party and that the policy contradicted Labour's policy of aiming to promote equality of opportunity. 
noLabel	The Entertainment Consumers Association (ECA) launched an  along with their amicus brief to provide the Supreme Court additional information .	The Progress & Freedom Foundation and the Electronic Frontier Foundation together submitted an amicus brief citing social research that declared Super Mario Bros. to be a violent video game.
noLabel	The test in Brandenburg is the current High Court jurisprudence on the ability of government to proscribe speech after that fact.	Despite Schenck being limited, the phrase "shouting fire in a crowded theater" has since come to be known as synonymous with an action that the speaker believes goes beyond the rights guaranteed by free speech, reckless or malicious speech, or an action whose outcomes are blatantly obvious.
noLabel	Wood believes that the U.S. operates on "a sort of civic religion," which includes a generally-shared belief in a creator who "expects better of us."	Beyond that, individuals are free to decide how they want to believe and fill in their own creeds and express their conscience.
noLabel	Others say oil pipelines originated when the Oil Transport Association first constructed a wrought iron pipeline over a track from an oil field in Pennsylvania to a railroad station in Oil Creek, in the 1860s.	Pipelines are generally the most economical way to transport large quantities of oil, refined oil products or natural gas over land.
noLabel	On the other hand, China has many border regions with large minority populations, including Guangxi with 16&nbsp;million Zhuang people, and other concentrated Muslim populations such as the Hui people, with some even poorer than the Uyghurs, such as the Dongxiang, Bonan, and the Salar, among whom there have been "no reports of separatism, violence, or even Islamic radicalism".	The fellow Muslim Kazakhs, who live with the Uyghurs in the Xinjiang area under similar laws and conditions, have not organized rebellions against the state or aligned themselves with Kazakhstan .
noLabel	John Collins helped to form the International Confederation for Disarmament and Peace in 1963 and resigned as chairman of CND in 1964.	He had been unpopular with many CND supporters and he found himself out of sympathy with the direction the movement was taking. 
noLabel	The most commonly cited reason for permitting exports is to salvage valuable wood from cyclone damage, although this reasoning has come under heavy scrutiny.	This oscillating availability of Malagasy rosewood and other precious woods has created a market of rising and falling prices, allowing traders or "timber barons" to stockpile illegally sourced logs during periodic bans and then flood the market when the trade windows open and prices are high. 
noLabel	Absent of a provision in a State Constitution, State civil rights laws that regulate the private sector are generally Constitutional under the "police powers" doctrine or the power of a State to enact laws designed to protect public health, safety and morals.	All States must adhere to the Federal Civil Rights laws, but States may enact civil rights laws that offer additional employment protection. 
noLabel	However, in Locke v. Davey, 540 U.S. 712 (2004), the Court held that states could exclude majors in "devotional theology" from an otherwise generally available college scholarship.	The Court has not indicated, however, whether this holding extends to the public school context, and it may well be limited to the context of individuals training to enter the ministry.
noLabel	The authors also did not provide a model for EFC but rather described conditions under which it was observed in Denmark from 1983–84 and Ireland from 1987–89, a period when the world was undergoing rapid interest rate declines and world wide growth.	These conditions included a significant currency devaluation prior to assuming a peg against a stable currency (Germany in Denmark's case), budget improvement through significant tax increases and spending cuts and sufficient liquidity that current disposable income did not constrain consumption.
noLabel	Although they feel the basis for the approach, the living tree doctrine (the classical name for generous interpretations of the Canadian Constitution), is sound, they argue Charter case law has been more radical.	When the living tree doctrine is applied right, the authors claim, "The elm remained an elm; it grew new branches but did not transform itself into an oak or a willow."
noLabel	During the 1990s the Airline Liaison Officers abroad had been an essential component in preventing undocumented passengers reaching the UK and driving down asylum claims, (see previous sections).	The impact was significant - numbers of Inadequately Documented Arrivals (IDAs) detected after arriving by air fell from 14,071 in 2003 to 6,831 in 2005 .
noLabel	A Grand Jury cleared three of the associates, two associates paid small fines, and charges against the sixth man were dropped.	Senator Joseph McCarthy believed the failure to aggressively prosecute the defendants was a communist conspiracy and according to Kleht and Radosh, the case helped build his notoriety .
noLabel	In the mid-1980s, HIV and AIDS were virtually unheard of in southern Africa; it is now the worst-affected region in the world.	Of the eleven southern African countries (Angola, Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique, South Africa, Lesotho, Swaziland, Madagascar) at least seven are estimated to have an infection rate of over 15% .
noLabel	Supporters of photo ID laws contend that the photographic IDs (such as driver's licenses or student IDs from state schools) are nearly universal, and that presenting them is a minor inconvenience when weighed against the possibility of ineligible voters affecting elections.	Opponents argue that photo ID requirements disproportionately affect minority and elderly voters who don't normally maintain driver's licenses, and therefore that requiring such groups to obtain and keep track of photo IDs that are otherwise unneeded is a suppression tactic aimed at those groups . 
noLabel	Demand response refers to the use of communication and switching devices which can release deferrable loads quickly, or absorb additional energy to correct supply/demand imbalances.	Incentives have been widely created in the American, British and French systems for the use of these systems, such as favorable rates or capital cost assistance, encouraging consumers with large loads to take them off line or to start diesels whenever there is a shortage of capacity, or conversely to increase load when there is a surplus. 
noLabel	Examining the influence of humanism on scholars in medicine, mathematics, astronomy and physics may suggest that humanism and universities were a strong impetus for the scientific revolution.	Although the connection between humanism and the scientific discovery may very well have begun within the confines of the university, the connection has been commonly perceived as having been severed by the changing nature of science during the scientific revolution.
noLabel	Clearcutting can be used by foresters as a method of mimicking disturbance and increasing primary successional species, such as poplar (aspen), willow and black cherry in North America.	Clearcutting has also proved to be effective in creating animal habitat and browsing areas, which otherwise would not exist without natural stand-replacing disturbances such as wildfires, large scale windthrow, or avalanches. 
noLabel	Even at the federal level, there does not exist a specific listing of which exact acts are to be classified as obscene outside of the legally determined court cases.	Title 18, chapter 71 of the USC deals with obscenity, the workings out of the law described in this article, most notably the aforementioned Miller test. 
noLabel	Furthermore, the wealthy often leave their offspring with a hefty inheritance, jump-starting the process of wealth condensation for the next generation.	However, it has been contended by some sociologists such as Charles Murray that this has little effect on one's long-term outcome and that innate ability is by far the best determinant of one's lifetime outcome. 
noLabel	Grayling said he had received 900 expressions of interest from potential students and 80 job applications in the first week .	Britain's former prime minister, Tony Blair, endorsed it; and London's mayor, Boris Johnson, called it the boldest experiment in higher education in the UK since the foundation in 1983 of the University of Buckingham, the UK's first private university; he wrote that it showed the way ahead for academics demoralized by government interference with admissions procedures and "scapegoated for the weaknesses of the schools.
noLabel	The Pigou–Dalton principle is that redistribution of wealth from a rich person to a poor person reduces inequality, so long as the order is not switched (the initially richer person is not made poorer than the initially poorer person: they are brought together and not switched).	Hugh Dalton suggested further that, assuming no effects other than transfer, such transfers increase collective welfare, because the marginal utility of income or wealth to a rich person is less than that to a poor person.
noLabel	Of those polled, 37 percent agreed with the statement that they felt pressure to take those substances; 7 percent strongly agreed.	In contract talks with owners last summer, the union agreed to steroid testing for the first time, negotiating a complicated system that does not have immediate ramifications for players who test positive.
noLabel	By chaining together numerous stages with increasing amounts of fusion fuel, thermonuclear weapons can be made to an almost arbitrary yield; the largest ever detonated (the Tsar Bomba of the USSR) released an energy equivalent of over 50 million tons (50 megatons) of TNT.	Most thermonuclear weapons are considerably smaller than this, due to practical constraints arising from the space and weight requirements of missile warheads . 
noLabel	The context of the Infinity Journal article related specifically to Hamas' calls for ceasefires and 'calms' in 2004 after the majority of their leadership had been successfully targeted by Israeli forces.	According to the article, "Targeted Killings Work", Israeli targeted killings throughout "the 2000–2005 armed rebellion represented a successful strategy" because "the tactics never undermined Israeli policy enough to alter Israel’s overall political objectives" and because Hamas' will to continue with armed violence was temporarily broken .
noLabel	On October 2, 1789, the Continental Congress appointed a committee of thirteen to examine forms of government for the impending union of the states.	Among the proposals was that from the State of Virginia, written by Thomas Jefferson, urging a limitation of tenure, "to prevent every danger which might arise to American freedom by continuing too long in office the members of the Continental Congress.." The committee made recommendations, which as regards congressional term-limits were incorporated unchanged into the Articles of Confederation (1781-1789]).
noLabel	Around 1592, the Spanish galleon San Clemente brought 50 kilograms (110&nbsp;lb) of tobacco seed to the Philippines over the Acapulco-Manila trade route.	The seed was then distributed among the Roman Catholic missionaries, where the clerics found excellent climates and soils for growing high-quality tobacco on Philippine soil. 
noLabel	After the 1986 Reykjavik summit between U.S. President Ronald Reagan and the new Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev, the United States and the Soviet Union concluded two important nuclear arms reduction treaties: the INF Treaty (1987) and START I (1991).	After the end of the Cold War, the United States and the Russian Federation concluded the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty (2003) and the New START Treaty (2010). 
noLabel	In the Netherlands, a low-lying country, dams were often applied to block rivers in order to regulate the water level and to prevent the sea from entering the marsh lands.	Such dams often marked the beginning of a town or city because it was easy to cross the river at such a place, and often gave rise to the respective place's names in Dutch.
noLabel	Although it defined what an illegal entrant was, it did not provide sufficient clarity as to how the law should be applied.	The concept of illegal entry as laid out in the 1971 Act did not extend to those who simply presented false documents or lied to the immigration officer on arrival about what they were going to do or.
noLabel	Most teens (70%) say they have gotten some or a lot of information about sex and sexual relationships from their parents.	Other sources of information include friends at 53%, school, also at 53%, TV and movies at 51% and magazines at 34%.
noLabel	As of 2012, there are 43 communities who are in the process of or already producing renewable energy through co-operative structures in the UK.	They are set up and run by everyday people, mostly local residents, who are investing their time and money and together installing large wind turbines, solar panels, or hydro-electric power for their local communities . 
noLabel	Accordingly, the Israeli authorities grant a temporary residence permit to the illegal immigrants, which needs to be renew every three months.	Various authorities in Israel estimate that between 80–90 percent of the illegal immigrants live primarily in two centers: Tel Aviv (more than 60 percent of the Illegal immigrants) and Eilat (more than 20 percent), with a few in Ashdod, Jerusalem and Arad .
noLabel	This concept partly lived on in the divine right of kings but was much undermined and attenuated by the cutting away of the spiritual arm, turning it into a mere department of state, subsidiary to the king.	The result was that this then appeared to say that any attempt by his subjects to judge the king would be contrary to the will of God and any person so acting would be damned.
noLabel	 Malaysia Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Tun Razak stated that "in the name of the Malaysian government and the people strongly condemn this inhumane, brutal aggression by the Israeli regime on the flotilla which is bringing humanitarian aid to the beleaguered people of Gaza."	He added that ""the whole world should condemn the action of this cruel regime" and "hoped the incident will result in a censure on Israel.
noLabel	Norman Finkelstein says that to further a public relations campaign, apologists for Israel make accusations of what they call a "new anti-Semitism" against those they oppose, and that they do so deliberately in order to undermine critics and bolster the nation's image .	Finkelstein also asserts that "American Jewish organizations" purposefully increase vocal accusations of anti-Semitism during episodes when Israel is coming under increased criticism (such as the during the Intifada), with the goal of discrediting critics of Israel .
noLabel	Lara Knudsen observes that the ICPD succeeded in getting feminist language into governments' and population agencies' literature, but in many countries the underlying concepts are not widely put into practice .	In two preparatory meetings for the ICPD+10 in Asia and Latin America, the United States, under the George W. Bush Administration, was the only nation opposing the ICPD's Programme of Action .
noLabel	Like other forms of tobacco use, cigar smoking poses a significant health risk depending on dosage: risks are greater for those who inhale more when they smoke, smoke more cigars, or smoke them longer .	The risk of dying from any cause is significantly greater for cigar smokers, with the risk particularly higher for smokers less than 65 years old, and with risk for moderate and deep inhalers reaching levels similar to cigarette smokers .
noLabel	The National Center for Health Statistics has reported that half of all 15- to 19-year-olds have had oral sex, with the percentage rising to 70% by the time they turn 19, and equal numbers of boys and girls participating .	The data indicates that many teens, particularly those from middle- and upper-income white families, don't consider oral sex to be as significant or meaningful as older generations do .
noLabel	A more recent study by Pimentel and colleagues (2010) suggests that the Earth can support a population of two billion individuals, but only if all individuals are willing to live at a European standard of living and use natural resources sustainably.	These researchers state that reducing population from today's level of over 6.8 billion to the suggested 2 billion would take slightly longer than 100 years if every couple, worldwide, agrees to produce an average of only one child . 
noLabel	In 2009 American Indians and Alaskan Natives were jailed, paroled, or on probation at 932 per 100,000, 25% higher than for non-Indians/Natives (747), up 5.6% that year and 12% higher than 2007 .	However, crime in general declined during this time down to near 1970 levels, an 18% decrease from the previous decade . 
noLabel	During the Second World War the allies adopted the Four Freedoms: freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, freedom from fear and freedom from want, as their basic war aims.	The United Nations Charter "reaffirmed faith in fundamental human rights, and dignity and worth of the human person" and committed all member states to promote "universal respect for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion" . 
noLabel	ONDCP stated in April 2011 that there has been a 46 percent drop in cocaine use among young adults over the past five years, and a 65 percent drop in the rate of people testing positive for cocaine in the workplace since 2006 .	At the same time, a 2007 study found that up to 35% of college undergraduates used stimulants not prescribed to them .
noLabel	In addition, the developer must usually buy development systems from the console manufacturer in order to even develop a game for consideration, as well as obtain concept approval for the game from the console manufacturer.	Therefore, the developer normally has to have a publishing deal in place before starting development on a game project, but in order to secure a publishing deal, the developer must have a track record of console development, something which few startups will have.
noLabel	He wrote: Having announced its blockade, Israel had no obligation to take the ships’ crew at their word as to the nature of the cargo.	The blockading party has the right to fashion the arrangements, including search at a nearby port, under which passage of humanitarian goods is permitted . 
noLabel	There is criticism that, under this system, Singaporean society is being increasingly stratified and that an elite class is being created from a narrow segment of the population .	Although most agree that Singapore's economic success has been due in part to its strong emphasis on developing and promoting talented leaders, there are signs that an increasing number believe that it is instead becoming an elitist society .
noLabel	The selective abortion of female fetuses is most common in areas where cultural norms value male children over female children .	A son is often preferred as an "asset" since he can earn and support the family; a daughter is a "liability" since she will be married off to another family, and so will not contribute financially to her parents.
noLabel	In September 2004 the North Dakota Supreme Court rejected a mother's attempt to prosecute her doctor for circumcising her child without fully informing her of the consequences of the procedure.	The judge and jury found that the defendants were adequately informed of possible complications, and the jury further found that it is not incumbent on the doctors to describe every "insignificant" risk . 
noLabel	In a 2003 study that analyzed 133 IMF austerity programmes, the IMF's independent evaluation office found that policy makers consistently underestimated the disastrous effects of rigid spending cuts on economic growth .	US economist Joseph Stiglitz has also criticised the EU for being too slow to help Greece, insufficiently supportive of the new government, lacking the will power to set up sufficient "solidarity and stabilisation framework" to support countries experiencing economic difficulty, and too deferential to bond rating agencies . 
noLabel	"The Czech Criminal Code defines racist motivation as a specific aggravating circumstance that judges are required to take into account in sentencing, as well as defining specific racist acts as crimes.	Section 196 punishes 'violence against a group of inhabitants and against individuals on the basis of race, nationality, political conviction or religion.'" .
noLabel	It was again reinforced clearly for the entire church in the Middle Ages, as a result of the Second Lateran Council in 1139 .	The Catholic Church's requirement of a vow of celibacy from Latin rite priests (while allowing very limited individual exceptions) is criticized for differing from Christian traditions issuing from the Protestant Reformation, which apply no limitations, and even from the practice of the ancient Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches.
noLabel	On 25 December 2011, it was reported that three commandos who sustained moderate and serious injuries had still not been recognized as disabled veterans and granted state benefits.	The Ministry of Defense demanded that additional proof of injury be produced, though its rehabilitation wing had already made a preliminary decision to grant them disability status.
noLabel	In essence, the lesson learned is that governments will use legislative and judicial means to thwart attempts to change the economic system, even when conducted by non-violent means.	Therefore, in order to significantly improve the status of working people who sell their labor—according to this belief—no less than organizing as an entire class of workers can accomplish and sustain the necessary change. 
noLabel	Dan Perry writes that "the Osirak bombing - and Peres's poor political judgement in criticizing it - were crucial in turning the tide of what initially had seemed to be a hopeless election campaign for Likud" .	On June 30, Likud was reelected in favor of Peres's Alignment party, winning by just one seat in the Knesset . 
noLabel	On 26 February 2011, five websites were discovered which seemed to indicate a new title in the Grand Theft Auto franchise.	There have been several minor leaks of supposed GTA production including websites, casting calls featuring GTA characters, and an IGN editor who has said the next game will be released in 2012 . 
noLabel	In countries where there is a publicly-funded healthcare system, society covers the cost of medical care for smokers who become ill through smoking in the form of increased taxes.	Two broad debating positions exist on this front, the "pro-smoking" argument suggesting that heavy smokers generally don't live long enough to develop the costly and chronic illnesses which affect the elderly, reducing society's healthcare burden, and the "anti-smoking" argument suggests that the healthcare burden is increased because smokers get chronic illnesses younger and at a higher rate than the general population.
noLabel	For example, Soviet work on methods of uranium isotope separation was altered when it transpired, to Kurchatov's surprise, that the Americans had opted for the Gaseous diffusion method.	Whilst research on other separation methods continued throughout the war years, the emphasis was placed on replicating U.S. success with gaseous diffusion.
noLabel	The computer gaming industry experienced its first major growing pains in the early 1980s as publishing houses appeared, with many honest businesses—occasionally surviving at least 20 years, such as Electronic Arts—alongside fly-by-night operations that cheated the games' developers.	While some early '80s games were simple clones of existing arcade titles, the relatively low publishing costs for personal computer games allowed for bold, unique games.
noLabel	Open Theism, by contrast, asserts that, due to the nature of time, God's omniscience does not mean the deity can predict the future.	"Theism" is sometimes used to refer in general to any belief in a god or gods, i.e., monotheism or polytheism . 
noLabel	Ante Pavelić, the leader of the Ustaše in Croatia during World War II, was granted a "devotional" audience with Pius XII in Rome .	The historian John Cornwell views this act as "de facto recognition by the Holy See" of the Independent State of Croatia, which committed genocide against its Serb, Jewish and Roma citizens .
noLabel	Longer school days and shorter holidays are "the perfect election promise" to win votes for the Conservatives from stressed parents juggling work and childcare, a former top adviser to David Cameron has suggested.Paul Kirby, the former head of policy development at No 10, posted a personal blog setting out a big increase in the amount of time pupils spend at school, which he described as "a real game changer in education".Under Kirby's proposals, the school day would be extended to 6pm, while school holidays would be whittled down to just six or seven weeks a year.	"What about this for a simple manifesto promise ΓÇô 'From September 2016, all state funded schools will, by law, provide 45 hours of education per week for 45 weeks of the year'," Kirby wrote in his blog.
noLabel	In contrast, conservative writer and law professor Matthias Storme has claimed that the freedom of discrimination in human societies is a fundamental human right, or more precisely, the basis of all fundamental freedoms and therefore the most fundamental freedom.	Author Hans-Hermann Hoppe, in an essay about his book Democracy: The God That Failed, asserts that a natural social order is characterized by increased discrimination. 
noLabel	There the Court dismissed a woman's discrimination claim because she had filed it more than 180 days after the first affected paycheck.	McCain, who said he opposed the bill, was campaigning in New Orleans, Louisiana at the time of the Senate vote in 2008, when the bill died because Democrats could not break a Republican filibuster (The vote in favor of the bill was 56–42, with 60 needed for cloture) .
noLabel	Conservative Judaism, while generally encouraging its members to follow the traditional Jewish views on birth control has been more willing to allow greater exceptions regarding its use to fit better within modern society.	Reform Judaism has generally been the most liberal with regard to birth control allowing individual followers to use their own judgment in what, if any, birth control methods they might wish to employ.
noLabel	This element of job protection is especially in industries that are needed to keep the economy from going into a depression.	While the automotive sector is slowly recalling workers back to work, grocery stores and restaurants have slashed hours in the face of the global recession.
noLabel	These tools would have also been easier to transport, which was a benefit as people only stayed until the soil's nutrients were depleted.	However, through excavations in Mexico it has been found that the continuous cultivating of smaller pieces of land would also have been a sustaining practice.
noLabel	Another, more recent approach, centers on 'capping' the production of fissile material for weapons purposes, which would hopefully be followed by 'roll back'.	To this end, India and the United States jointly sponsored a UN General Assembly resolution in 1993 calling for negotiations for a 'cut-off' convention.
noLabel	In the Eurostat survey, 23% of Swedish citizens responded that "they believe there is a God", whereas 53% answered that "they believe there is some sort of spirit or life force" and 23% that "they do not believe there is any sort of spirit, God, or life force".	Nevertheless, despite a lack of belief in God, these individuals resented the term atheist, and still called themselves Christians, being content with remaining in the Church of Sweden .
noLabel	While the persons receiving redistributions from such programs may prefer to be directly given cash, these programs may be more palatable to society, as it gives society some measure of control over how the funds are spent .	See Figure 1 for an example of how a subsidy for a good (Good Y in the figure) will increase the amount of the subsidized good purchased by a greater portion than it increases the amount of the non-subsidized good purchased (Good X), as a result of the substitution effect.
noLabel	Monsignor Mupendawatu said the church's insistence that education in responsible sexuality be at least a part of any anti-AIDS strategy has found appreciation in scientific circles, in fact, contrary to what the public has been led to believe.	The church's position is that effective prevention of AIDS must include the abandonment of high-risk behavior and the adoption of a "balanced sexuality" based on permanent monogamy- the inclusion of total premarital chastity and lasting full marital fidelity, he said. 
noLabel	Nearly all the gasoline sold in the United States today is mixed with 10% ethanol, a mix known as E10, and motor vehicle manufacturers already produce vehicles designed to run on much higher ethanol blends.	Ford, Daimler AG, and GM are among the automobile companies that sell “flexible-fuel” cars, trucks, and minivans that can use gasoline and ethanol blends ranging from pure gasoline up to 85% ethanol (E85).
noLabel	Friedman allowed the Cato Institute to use his name for its biannual Milton Friedman Prize for Advancing Liberty beginning in 2001.	A Friedman Prize was given to the late British economist Peter Bauer during 2002, Peruvian economist Hernando de Soto during 2004, Mart Laar, former Estonian Prime Minister during 2006 and a young Venezuelan student Yon Goicoechea during 2008.
noLabel	|- The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a press release "The Government of Nepal is concerned over the military operation in the Gaza Strip that has caused considerable casualties and material damage with attendant risks of a grave humanitarian catastrophe".	The government has also called upon the parties to urgently agree on a cessation of violence, which it said is so crucial to move forward the stalled peace process in the Middle East .
noLabel	In January 2012 the Mexican government updated it's official count to 47,515 deaths since President Calderón began his military campaign against drug trafficking in 2006.	Because crimes are seldom investigated there is no way of knowing if these deaths are attributed to organized crime, the police, or the cartels.
noLabel	The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, also known as Mormonism, similarly asserts that the miraculous appearance of God, Jesus Christ and angels to Joseph Smith and others and subsequent finding and translation of the Book of Mormon establishes the existence of God.	The whole Latter Day Saint movement makes the same claim for example Community of Christ, Church of Christ (Temple Lot), Church of Jesus Christ (Bickertonite), Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (Strangite), Church of Jesus Christ (Cutlerite), etc. 
noLabel	Following the upsurge of support for the One Nation Party in 1996, Lebanese-born Australian anthropologist Ghassan Hage published a critique in 1997 of Australian multiculturalism in the book White Nation .	Drawing on theoretical frameworks from Whiteness studies, Jacques Lacan and Pierre Bourdieu, Hage examined a range of everyday discourses that implicated both anti-multiculturalists and pro-multiculturalists alike. 
noLabel	Political censorship exists when a government attempts to conceal, fake, distort, or falsify information that its citizens receive by suppressing or crowding out political news that the public might receive through news outlets.	In the absence of unflattering but objective information, people will be unable to dissent with the government or political party in charge.
noLabel	High school dropouts are less likely to be active labor force participants and are more likely to be unemployed than their more educated counterparts .	Female dropouts are much more likely to become single mothers and consequently be more likely to have an income under the poverty threshold or live on welfare .
noLabel	Cox also states that the phenomenon of wealth concentration among a small segment of the population is a century old, and argues a direct correlation between this and the health of the stock market, stating that 36.7% of the United States' wealth was controlled by the 1% in 1922, 44.2% when the stock market crashed in 1929, 19.9% in 1976, and has increased since then.	Cox also says that it has intensified at the same time that the United States changed from a manufacturing leader to a financial services leader.
noLabel	Currently, over 80 long-term heroin addicts who have not been helped by available treatment options are taking part in the North American Opiate Medication Initiative (NAOMI) trials.	However, critics have alleged that the control group gets unsustainably low doses of methadone, making them prone to fail and thus rigging the results in favor of heroin maintenance . 
noLabel	According to Amnesty International, methods of torture used by Israel on Palestinian prisoners include prolonged tying in painful stress positions, sleep deprivation and threats to harm detainees’ families.	Beatings and other ill-treatment of detainees are common during and following arrest and during transfer from one location to another .
noLabel	In an op-ed piece the Wall Street Journal said "Israel's actions in boarding the flotilla of ships bound for the Gaza Strip were entirely justified and perhaps even unavoidable."	Although, they add the caveat that "Unfortunately they turned into a tactical and strategic fiasco that does further damage to the Jewish State's tattered international reputation.
noLabel	This term, sometimes called fair equality of opportunity, is a somewhat broader and more expansive concept than the more limiting formal equality of opportunity and it deals with what is sometimes described as indirect discrimination .	It goes farther, and is more controversial than the formal variant, and has been thought to be much harder to achieve, with greater disagreement about how to achieve greater equality, and has been described as "unstable", particularly if the society in question is unequal to begin with in terms of great disparity of wealth .
noLabel	The Nazis considered Jews, Gypsies, Poles and other Slavic people such as the Russians, Ukrainians, Czechs and anyone else who was not an "Aryan" according to the contemporary Nazi race terminology to be subhuman (Untermensch).	The Nazis rationalized that the Germans, being a super human (Übermenschlich) race, had a biological right to displace, eliminate and enslave inferiors .
noLabel	In his book Children in Jeopardy: Can We Break the Cycle, Irving B. Harris discusses ways in which children can be helped to begin breaking the cycle of poverty.	He stresses the importance of starting early and teaching children the importance of education from a very young age as well as making sure these children get the same educational opportunities as students who are richer.
noLabel	Assange accused Domscheit-Berg of leaking information to Newsweek, claiming the WikiLeaks team was unhappy with Assange's leadership and handling of the Afghan war document releases .	Domscheit-Berg left with a small group to start OpenLeaks.com, a new leak organisation and website with a different management and distribution philosophy . 
noLabel	The radioactive isotope chosen for the fallout material is usually a high intensity gamma ray emitter, with a half-life long enough that it remains lethal for an extended period.	It also must have a chemistry that causes it to return to earth as fallout, rather than stay in the atmosphere after being vaporized in the explosion. 
noLabel	On 9 March 2012 a crucial milestone was reached, when it was announced that 85.8% of private holders of Greek government bonds regulated by Greek law (equal to ), had agreed to the debt restructuring deal.	As this number was above the 75% threshold, it enabled the Greek government to activate a collective action clause (CAC), so that the remaining 14.2% (equal to ) were also forced to agree.
noLabel	South Africa also had an active program to develop uranium-based nuclear weapons, but dismantled its nuclear weapon program in the 1990s.	Experts do not believe it actually tested such a weapon, though it later claimed it constructed several crude devices that it eventually dismantled.
noLabel	The thoroughly materialistic and anti-theistic philosophical Cārvāka (also called Nastika or Lokaiata) school that originated in India around the 6th century BCE is probably the most explicitly atheistic school of philosophy in India, similar to the Greek Cyrenaic school.	This branch of Indian philosophy is classified as heterodox due to its rejection of the authority of Vedas and hence is not considered part of the six orthodox schools of Hinduism, but it is noteworthy as evidence of a materialistic movement within Hinduism .
noLabel	Early efforts to prevent nuclear proliferation involved intense government secrecy, the wartime acquisition of known uranium stores (the Combined Development Trust), and at times even outright sabotage—such as the bombing of a heavy-water facility thought to be used for a German nuclear program.	None of these efforts were explicitly public, owing to the fact that the weapon developments themselves were kept secret until the bombing of Hiroshima. 
noLabel	Countries that participate and take the option to reduce their emissions from deforestation during a committed period of time would receive financial compensation for the carbon dioxide emissions that they avoided .	To raise the payments, the host country would issue government bonds or negotiate some kind of loan with a financial institution that would want to take part in the compensation promised to the other country.
noLabel	The age of the mother affected the ratio: the overall ratio was 1.05 for mothers aged 25 to 35 at the time of birth; while mothers who were below the age of 15 or above 40 had babies with a sex ratio ranging between 0.94 to 1.11, and a total sex ratio of 1.04.	This United States study also noted that American mothers of Hawaiian, Filipino, Chinese, Cuban and Japanese ethnicity had the highest sex ratio, with years as high as 1.14 and average sex ratio of 1.07 over the 62 year study period.
noLabel	Yehoshua Saguy argued for continued efforts in trying to find a non-military solution as it would take the Iraqis five to ten years to produce the material necessary for a nuclear weapon .	In the end, Begin chose to order the attack based on a worst-case estimate where a weapon could be created in one to two years time . 
noLabel	In 1961, U Thant, then the Union of Burma's Permanent Representative to the United Nations and former Secretary to the Prime Minister, was elected Secretary-General of the United Nations, a position he held for ten years .	Among the Burmese to work at the UN when he was Secretary-General was a young Aung San Suu Kyi, who went on to become winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize.
noLabel	The National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS) program, established in 1972, is a national survey of a representative sample of households in the United States which covers the frequency of crime victimization and the characteristics and consequences of victimization.	The primary purpose behind the NCVS program is to gather information on crimes that were not reported to police, though information is also collected on reported crimes.
noLabel	Debaters should also consider what age group they are discussing: the arguments for abstinence-only with young children may be substantially different than those with older teenagers.	Given that the resolution does not specify the age range, it is up to the Affirmative to either defend abstinence-only in general in primary and secondary schools, or to provide solid justification for limiting the debate.
noLabel	In 2000 the CDC estimated that more than 40% of the US population was sedentary, another 30% was active but not sufficiently and less than 30% had an adequate level of physical activity .	There has been a trend toward decreased physical activity in part due to increasingly mechanized forms of work, changing modes of transportation, and increasing urbanization.
noLabel	According to Stalking, Threatening, and Attacking Public Figures, "Hundreds of celebrity howlers threaten the President of the United States every year, sometimes because they disagree with his policies, but more often just because he is the President.	" The United States Attorneys' Manual states that the Terrorism and Violent Crime Section has supervisory authority over Section 871 cases . 
noLabel	All the states actually go further than Commonwealth law requires and ban the sale of X18+ rated material, though possessing it after ordering it from elsewhere is legal (except in parts of the Northern Territory).	Therefore, all legal sale of X18+ rated material in Australia occurs by mail order from the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory.
noLabel	Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan said that the raid was "state terror" and decided to return from a state visit to Chile .	Erdoğan spoke to the AK Party Group at the Turkish Parliament, he said "Turkey's friendship is as strong as its animosity" .
noLabel	French citizenship is based in the idea of political unity; therefore, French citizenship may be more accessible than other EU countries, such as Germany.	However, there is also the strong feeling among French citizens that those non-native people who gain French citizenship should also conform to the cultural aspects of French life . 
noLabel	The creation of a National Infrastructure Reinvestment Bank was first proposed by United States Senator Christopher J. Dodd and Senator Chuck Hagel in 2007.	However, several other iterations of a National Infrastructure Bank have been proposed and considered and it is likely that implementing legislation for the Bank will look quite different from that which was proposed in the original legislation. 
noLabel	Further research disclosed that pumping out sand opened "wormholes" in the sand formation which allowed more oil to reach the wellbore.	The advantage of this method is better production rates and recovery (around 10%) and the disadvantage that disposing of the produced sand is a problem.
noLabel	Aligning with Leacock's beliefs on the subject, Michael Hannan in an essay  argues that the "culture of poverty" is "essentially untestable."	This is due to many things including the highly subjective nature of poverty and issues concerning the universal act of classifying only some impoverished people as trapped in the culture.
noLabel	No result in any elite sport can be trusted with reasonable certainty to have been achieved without performance-enhancing drugs, a number of American scientists say.	The continuing revelations of drug use have undermined, and perhaps even destroyed, the reliability of sport as fair play, they say.
noLabel	On September 24, 2008, the House Ethics Committee announced that it would investigate whether Rangel had violated its code of conduct or any law or other regulation related to his performance of his duties .	On November 23, 2008, The New York Post reported that Rangel took a "homestead" tax break on his Washington, DC, house for years, while simultaneously occupying multiple New York City rent-stabilized apartments, "possibly violating laws and regulations in both cases.
noLabel	He added that Israel took extraordinary measures to give Gaza civilians notice of targeted areas, aborted potentially effective missions in order to prevent civilian casualties, and took "unthinkable" risks by allowing huge amounts of humanitarian aid into Gaza during the fighting .	Goldstone stated that Kemp was not interviewed "because the report did not deal with the issues he raised regarding the problems of conducting military operations in civilian areas" . 
noLabel	A 2007 survey of British muslims showed that 61 % believe homosexuality should be illegal, with up to 71 % of young British muslims holding this belief.	43% of polled muslims believed muslim woman should not be allowed to marry without the consent of her guardian, and 31% believed apostasy should be forbidden and punishable by death .
noLabel	Since 1999 a huge amount of legislative time had been allocated to immigration issues and there had been an equally huge expansion of resources and development capital.	The mistakes that led to the resignation of Beverley Hughes and Charles Clarke were possibly the last straw and led to consideration of whether more fundamental change was required. 
noLabel	Although the Chinese government does not interfere with Chinese people's privacy as much as it used to, it still deems it necessary to keep tabs on what people say in public.	Internet forums are strictly monitored, as is international postal mail (this is sometimes inexplicably "delayed" or simply "disappears") and e-mail . 
noLabel	In August 2002, the United States launched a program to track and secure enriched uranium from 24 Soviet-style reactors in 16 countries, in order to reduce the risk of the materials falling into the hands of terrorists or "rogue states".	The first such operation was Project Vinca, "a multinational, public-private effort to remove nuclear material from a poorly-secured Yugoslav research institute."
noLabel	Inflation adjusted median household income in the US peaked in 1999 at $53,252 (at the peak of the internet stock bubble), dropped to $51,174 in 2004, went up to 52,823 in 2007 (at the peak of the housing bubble), and has since trended downward to $49,445 in 2010.	The last time median household income was at this level was in 1996 at $49,112 indicating that the recession of the early 2000s and the Great Recession have wiped out all middle class income gains for the last 15 years .
noLabel	Congressional investigators have stated that Osorio was known by the ATF to be a straw purchaser months before he purchased the gun used to kill Zapata, leading them to question ATF surveillance tactics and to suspect a Texas-based operation similar to Fast and Furious .	In addition to Otilio Osorio, a Texas-based drug and gun trafficker, Manuel Barba, was involved trafficking another of the guns recovered in the Zapata shooting.
noLabel	This area is more contentious than the area of temporal stability, mostly because some have tried generalizing the findings of the temporal stability models and theory to stability in general.	While the relationship between temporal variations in productivity and diversity has a mathematical cause, which will allow the relationship to be seen much more often than not, it is not the case with resistance/resilience stability.
noLabel	The only attempted prosecution since 1855 was in 1999, when John Corway brought a private prosecution against Independent Newspapers and Irish Independent editor Aengus Fanning for an editorial cartoon published during the 1995 divorce referendum, which depicted the government parties' leaders snubbing a Catholic priest who was holding out a Communion wafer .	The Supreme Court ruled that the 1937 Constitution had extinguished the common law offence, stating "It is difficult to see how the common law crime of blasphemy, related as it was to an established Church and an established religion could survive in .. a Constitution guaranteeing freedom of conscience, and the free profession and practice of religion.
noLabel	Its negative impact on the environment lies in the creation of the solar cells which are made primarily of silica (from sand) and the extraction of silicon from silica may require the use of fossil fuels, although newer manufacturing processes have eliminated CO2 production.	Solar power carries an upfront cost to the environment via production, but offers clean energy throughout the lifespan of the solar cell. 
noLabel	He later added that the mission did not conduct a judicial investigation, and stated that its findings did not amount to "the criminal standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt".	He described it as a prima facie case, "reasonable on weighing the evidence" and said that the information obtained would not be admissible as evidence in a criminal court .
noLabel	The International Narcotics Control Board (INCB) reports that although the central government of Mexico has made concerted efforts to reduce corruption in recent years, it remains a serious problem .	Some agents of the Federal Investigations Agency (AFI) are believed to work as enforcers for various cartels, and the Attorney General (PGR) reported in December 2005 that nearly 1,500 of AFI's 7,000 agents were under investigation for suspected criminal activity and 457 were facing charges . 
noLabel	A situation in which the United States might actually be expected to carry out a "successful" attack is perceived as a disadvantage for both countries.	The strategic balance between the United States and Russia is becoming less stable, and the objective, technical possibility of a first strike by the United States is increasing.
noLabel	Many technologies and materials associated with the creation of a nuclear power program have a dual-use capability, in that they can be used to make nuclear weapons if a country chooses to do so.	In 1975 over 2,000 prominent scientists signed a Declaration on Nuclear Power, prepared by the Union of Concerned Scientists, warning of the dangers of nuclear proliferation and urging the President and Congress to suspend the exportation of nuclear power to other countries, and reduce domestic construction until major problems were resolved .
noLabel	The British replacement of Trident is a programme replacing the existing Trident weapons system based on four Vanguard class submarines each armed with 16 Trident II submarine-launched ballistic missiles.	The government has begun planning a new submarine-based system but there is some opposition to this programme - from those who want to take the opportunity for full nuclear disarmament.
noLabel	The IUCN Red List serves as an international conservation tool to identify those species most in need of conservation attention and by providing a global index on the status of biodiversity .	More than the dramatic rates of species loss, however, conservation scientists note that the sixth mass extinction is a biodiversity crisis requiring far more action than a priority focus on rare, endemic or endangered species.
noLabel	Relief and reconstruction are desperately needed but, for the real wounds to heal, we must also establish the truth about crimes perpetuated against civilians on both sides.	" The chief rabbi of South Africa Warren Goldstein and Melanie Phillips asserted that this statement, made before the work of the mission has begun, violated provisions for impartiality of the fact-finding missions .
noLabel	Dutch criminologist Willem Adrian Bonger, one of the first scholars to apply the principles of economic determinism to the issue of crime, argued that such inequality as found in capitalism was ultimately responsible for the manifestation of crime at all levels of society, particularly among the poor.	Though this line of thinking has been criticized for requiring the establishment of a utopian socialist society, the notion that the disproportionality observed in minority representation in crime rate statistics could be understood as the result of systematic economic disadvantage found its way into many of the theories developed in subsequent generations. 
noLabel	In nuclear fission events the nuclei may break into any combination of lighter nuclei, but the most common event is not fission to equal mass nuclei of about mass&nbsp;120; the most common event (depending on isotope and process) is a slightly unequal fission in which one daughter nucleus has a mass of about 90 to 100&nbsp;u and the other the remaining 130 to 140&nbsp;u .	Unequal fissions are energetically more favorable because this allows one product to be closer to the energetic minimum near mass 60&nbsp;u (only a quarter of the average fissionable mass), while the other nucleus with mass 135&nbsp;u is still not far out of the range of the most tightly bound nuclei (another statement of this, is that the atomic binding energy curve is slightly steeper to the left of mass 120&nbsp;u than to the right of it).
noLabel	The degradation of a species' habitat may alter the fitness landscape to such an extent that the species is no longer able to survive and becomes extinct.	This may occur by direct effects, such as the environment becoming toxic, or indirectly, by limiting a species' ability to compete effectively for diminished resources or against new competitor species. 
noLabel	Soviet physicist Georgy Flyorov noticed that in spite of the progress German, British and American physicists had made in research into uranium fission, scientific journals had ceased publishing papers on the topic.	Flyorov deduced that this meant such research had been classified in the countries concerned, and wrote to Stalin in April 1942.
noLabel	Again this assumption is challengeable with for instance stealth aircraft but also with other means, such as smuggling weapons to the target undetected (using devices like a suitcase nuke).	A close range missile attack from a submarine would also negate this assumption, as would positioning the weapons close to the intended target (exemplified in the Cuban Missile Crisis). 
noLabel	In America before 1862, combat duty was always voluntary, but white men aged 18 to 45 were usually required to join local militia units.	Colonial militia laws—and after 1776 those of the states—required able-bodied white men to enroll in the militia and to undergo a minimum of military training, all without pay.
noLabel	Keynote speeches by Daniel Nepstad, Director of the International Program at the Amazon Environmental Research Institute and Mirna Cunningham Kain, Chair of the Center for Autonomy and Development of Indigenous Peoples, emphasized the critical needs for both sound forestry and climate change science, and pro-active engagement with indigenous people and forest-dependent communities as the de facto and de jure custodians of land and forest resources to secure equitable outcomes.	UN Under Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs Sha Zukang provided an important forward-looking perspective, drawing participants' attention to the multiple benefits of forests and the International Year of Forests in 2011. 
noLabel	The term "unschooling" as coined by John Holt describes an approach in which parents do not authoritatively direct the child's education, but interact with the child following the child's own interests, leaving them free to explore and learn as their interests lead .	"Unschooling" does not indicate that the child is not being educated, but that the child is not being "schooled", or educated in a rigid school-type manner.
noLabel	Second-generation technologies are market-ready and are being deployed at the present time; they include solar heating, photovoltaics, wind power, solar thermal power stations, and modern forms of bioenergy.	Third-generation technologies require continued R&D efforts in order to make large contributions on a global scale and include advanced biomass gasification, biorefinery technologies, hot-dry-rock geothermal power, and ocean energy . 
noLabel	New renewables (small hydro, modern biomass, wind, solar, geothermal, and biofuels) accounted for another 3% and are growing very rapidly .	The share of renewables in electricity generation is around 19%, with 16% of global electricity coming from hydroelectricity and 3% from new renewables . 
noLabel	The Joint Forces Command are concerned that this internal conflict will have a major impact on the stability of the Mexican state over the next several years, and therefore would demand an American response based on the implications for homeland security alone .	In March 2009, the United States Department of Homeland Security said that it is considering using the National Guard to counter the threat of drug violence in Mexico from spreading to the US.
noLabel	It is also suggested that unchecked free trade increases the risk of economic bubbles that may affect entire nations and perhaps the world instead of just individuals.	Diversification in personal and corporate investment portfolios is commonly accepted advice to reduce risk; similarly, diversity in economies can also act as a buffer against problems with specific product or product category demand. 
noLabel	The test, a plutonium implosion type device, released the equivalent of 19 kilotons of TNT, far more powerful than any weapon ever used before.	The news of the test's success was rushed to Truman, who used it as leverage at the Potsdam conference, held near Berlin. 
noLabel	|- Hamas Ismail Haniyeh, Hamas' leader in Gaza and head of the democratically elected Palestinian government, called Israel's attacks an "ugly massacre" .	The leader of Hamas in Damascus, Khaled Meshal, threatened revenge attacks, saying "the time for the Third Intifada has come" .
noLabel	Because instantaneous electrical generation and consumption must remain in balance to maintain grid stability, this variability can present substantial challenges to incorporating large amounts of wind power into a grid system.	Intermittency and the non-dispatchable nature of wind energy production can raise costs for regulation, incremental operating reserve, and (at high penetration levels) could require an increase in the already existing energy demand management, load shedding, or storage solutions or system interconnection with HVDC cables.
noLabel	Others have asserted that the Columbine killings could have been prevented, or at least reduced if teachers or guards were armed with guns.	However, gun control supporters argue that an armed deputy sheriff arrived just five minutes after the Columbine shooting began and was still unable to stop subsequent shootings . 
noLabel	Pro-life groups such as the Susan B. Anthony List contributed $1,937,124 and the National Pro-Life Alliance contributed $241,999 in the 2009–2010 fiscal year .	Two of the most active pro-choice groups, Planned Parenthood and NARAL Pro-Choice America, spent a total of $1,237,197 on lobbying in 2009–2010 . 
noLabel	In North America, the point where recess ends in a child's education is largely dependent on the school district, though by many standards it is removed when the child enters middle school.	However, in college, students usually have free periods, which are similar in spirit, although usually one studies or talks with one's friends during such times rather than playing games, which are made difficult by the lack of a playground. 
noLabel	The Mandate of Heaven was first used by the Zhou Dynasty to justify its overthrow of the Shang Dynasty and would be used by many succeeding dynasties in the same way.	The Duke of Zhou explained to the people of Shang that if their king had not misused his power, his Mandate would not have been taken away.
noLabel	Jazz was from early on closely intertwined with the smoking that was practiced in the venues where it was played, such as bars, dance halls, jazz clubs and even brothels.	The rise of jazz coincided with the expansion of the modern tobacco industry, and in the United States also contributed to the spread of cannabis.
noLabel	Reportedly, the idea for the review was conceived by Reagan advisors Dinesh D'Souza and Gary Bauer as a means of "rejuvenat[ing]" the pro-life movement by producing evidence of the risks of abortion .	Koop was reluctant to accept the assignment, believing that Reagan was more concerned with appeasing his political base than with improving women's health . 
noLabel	On June 1, 2006, the San Bernardino Sun reported that the City of Redlands, California and San Bernardino County, California, both clients of Lowery's law firm, had been subpoenaed in the federal investigation into possible lobbying and earmarking abuses by Lowery's firm and Lewis .	Four days later it was revealed that two other clients of the law firm, California State University San Bernardino and Riverside County, California, had also been subpoenaed .
noLabel	The Teller–Ulam design was for many years considered one of the top nuclear secrets, and even today it is not discussed in any detail by official publications with origins "behind the fence" of classification.	United States Department of Energy (DOE) policy has been, and continues to be, that they do not acknowledge when "leaks" occur, because doing so would acknowledge the accuracy of the supposed leaked information. 
noLabel	Free Burma Coalition activists ramped up the pressure on PepsiCo until 1997 when the company completely severed its remaining business ties in Burma.	The Free Burma Coalition also campaigned against nearly 100 corporations in Burma, including several oil companies, such as Arco, Unocal, and Texaco. 
noLabel	The labor force participation rate is the ratio between the labor force and the overall size of their cohort (national population of the same age range).	In the West during the later half of the 20th century, the labor force participation rate increased significantly, largely due to the increasing number of women entering the workplace. 
noLabel	Proponents of the draft argue that it conserved the military's firm rooting in civilian society, and warn that a professional army might return to the militaristic, anti-democratic and elitist traditions of the Nazi and earlier eras.	Draft service was also considered a tradition dating back to the 1848 Revolution, intended to ensure the continuity of the democratic state.
noLabel	During the era following the Reformation, usually known as the period of Lutheran Orthodoxy, small groups of non-Lutherans, especially Calvinist Dutchmen, the Moravian Church and Walloons or French Huguenots from Belgium, played a significant role in trade and industry, and were quietly tolerated as long as they kept a low religious profile.	The Sami originally had their own shamanistic religion, but they converted to Lutheranism by the work of Swedish missionaries in the 17th and 18th centuries.
noLabel	It has been a rough year for fair play, and a rough year for the notion of play at all, especially with the growing pressures on, and commercialization of, youth athletics.	LeBron James's highly publicized jump from high school to professional basketball is one thing, but how about the national basketball championship for third graders held in Tennessee?
noLabel	The area around the altar came to be called the "sanctuary", and that terminology does not apply to Christian churches alone: King Solomon's temple, built in about 950 BCE, had a sanctuary ("Holy of Holies") where the tabernacle ("Ark of the Covenant") was, and the term applies to the corresponding part of any house of worship.	In most modern synagogues, the main room for prayer is known as the sanctuary, to contrast it with smaller rooms dedicated to various other services and functions.
noLabel	On 11 April 2006, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad announced Iranian scientists working at the pilot facility at Natanz had successfully enriched uranium to the 3.5 percent level, using a small cascade of 164 gas centrifuges.	In the televised address from the city of Mashhad he said, "I am officially announcing that Iran has joined the group of those countries which have nuclear technology" . 
noLabel	In 2006 the Canadian Obesity Network published the "Canadian Clinical Practice Guidelines (CPG) on the Management and Prevention of Obesity in Adults and Children".	This is a comprehensive evidence-based guideline to address the management and prevention of overweight and obesity in adults and children . 
noLabel	But the idea of taste (le goût) was the real social indicator: to truly be able to categorize nature, one had to have the proper taste, an ability of discretion shared by all members of polite society.	In this way natural history spread many of the scientific development of the time, but also provided a new source of legitimacy for the dominant class .
noLabel	The commission that Pope John XXIII formed to study population problems as well as acceptable methods of birth control met once in 1963 and twice in 1964.	As Vatican Council II was concluding, Pope Paul VI enlarged it to fifty-eight members, including married couples, laywomen, as well as theologians and bishops.
noLabel	Service reservoirs perform several functions including ensuring sufficient head of water in the water distribution system and providing hydraulic capacitance in the system to even out peak demand from consumers enabling the treatment plant to run at optimum efficiency.	Large service reservoirs can also be managed to so that energy costs in pumping are reduced by concentrating refilling activity at times of day when power costs are low.
noLabel	“All the decisions about treaties and free trade areas, about declarations and plans of action, are made by Heads of Government, ministers and senior officials.	And the fact that among the masses, there is little knowledge, let alone appreciation, of the large initiatives that ASEAN is taking on their behalf.” .
noLabel	" Before and after the English Bill of Rights, the government could always disarm any individual or class of individuals it considered dangerous to the peace of the realm .	In 1765, William Blackstone wrote the Commentaries on the Laws of England describing the right to have arms in England during the 18th century as a natural right of the subject that was "also declared" in the English Bill of Rights .
noLabel	after the Games, with a reduced capacity of 60,000 (and with the track remaining in place), but that decision was overturned amid a legal battle, and the post-Games use of the stadium was reopened for bidding.	Regardless of the final outcome, the stadium will retain its track; accordingly, the Olympic Stadium won the right to host the 2017 World Championships in Athletics.
noLabel	They set sail in accordance with the Customs Act and are known to be carrying humanitarian aid, not weapons or ammunition.	According to the Convention on the Law of the Sea, Israel was not entitled to launch a military operation against the boats and activists. 
noLabel	When part of a widespread and systematic practice rape and sexual slavery are now recognised as crime against humanity and war crime.	Rape is also now recognised as an element of the crime of genocide when committed with the intent to destroy, in whole or in part, a targeted group.
noLabel	Some of the health issues influenced by biodiversity include dietary health and nutrition security, infectious disease, medical science and medicinal resources, social and psychological health .	Biodiversity is also known to have an important role in reducing disaster risk, and in post-disaster relief and recovery efforts . 
noLabel	Douglas Wilson argues that while atheists can behave morally, belief is necessary for an individual "to give a rational and coherent account" of why they are obligated to lead a morally responsible life .	Wilson says that atheism is unable to "give an account of why one deed should be seen as good and another as evil" (emphasis in original) .
noLabel	Spy Magazine ran a feature entitled "Logrolling in Our Time" that cited suspicious or humorous examples of mutually admiring book jacket blurbs by pairs of authors.	Private Eye magazine regularly draws attention to alleged logrolling by authors in "books of the year" features published by British newspapers and magazines .
noLabel	Frequent talk show guest, Examiner.com GunRights columnist and liberty book publisher John Longenecker argues that the nation's founders' Original Intent continues to align with the interests of the nation .	Longenecker sees the Founding Fathers' defeat of the abuse of due process in overthrowing British rule as a crucial aspect of enduring freedom, without which the nation will perish.
noLabel	In fact, We had in mind the justifiable anxieties which weigh upon them when We published Our encyclical letter Populorum Progressio.	But now We join Our voice to that of Our predecessor John XXIII of venerable memory, and We make Our own his words: "No statement of the problem and no solution to it is acceptable which does violence to man's essential dignity; those who propose such solutions base them on an utterly materialistic conception of man himself and his life.
noLabel	A key development in nuclear warfare during the decade of the 2000s and after has been the proliferation of nuclear weapons to the developing world, with India and Pakistan both publicly testing several nuclear devices, and North Korea conducting an underground nuclear test on October 9, 2006.	The US Geological Survey measured a 4.2 magnitude earthquake in the area where the North Korean test is said to have occurred.
noLabel	A 2005 report from the United States Department of State claimed that Iran began work on offensive biological weapons during the Iran–Iraq War, and that their large legitimate bio-technological and bio-medical industry "could easily hide pilot to industrial-scale production capabilities for a potential BW program, and could mask procurement of BW-related process equipment".	The report further said that "available information about Iranian activities indicates a maturing offensive program with a rapidly evolving capability that may soon include the ability to deliver these weapons by a variety of means" . 
noLabel	This method can be reasonably accurate for many people, but it does assume particular patterns for fat distribution over the body which may not apply to all individuals, and does not account for fat deposits which may not be directly under the skin.	Also, as the measurement and analysis generally involves a high degree of practice and interpretation, for an accurate result it must be performed by a professional and cannot generally be done by patients themselves. 
noLabel	" He goes on to criticize the perspective of the book for functioning as an "advocacy brief", because it describes and then rejects objections by the United States to arguments addressed in the work .	Anderson writes, "It is in this sense the indispensable book on the subject, one which no researcher on this subject can do without, and yet, under the surface of the extraordinary scholarship, it relentlessly advocates a particular end.
noLabel	In the aftermath of the scandal the trigger point at which foreign nationals would be considered for deportation was reduced from two years imprisonment to twelve months and plans were put in place to introduce “automatic deportation”.	It is unclear whether cases with lesser sentences were considered – in a statement to the HAC in 2008 the head of IND, Lin Homer, insisted that this was the case . 
noLabel	One of the first major victories for gun rights advocates at the federal level came in 2004, when the Assault Weapons Ban was scheduled to expire by its own terms.	Efforts by gun control advocates to extend the ban at the federal level failed; two later attempts to reestablish the ban also failed. 
noLabel	Since the division between the two parties, there have been conflicts between Hamas and various factions operating in Gaza and with Israel, most notably the Gaza War of 2008-2009.	The radicalization of the Gaza Strip also brought internal conflicts between various groups, in events like 2009 Hamas crackdown on Jund Ansar Allah, an Al-Queda affiliated group, resulting in 22 people killed; and the April 2011 Hamas crackdown on a Salafist group, involved in Vittorio Arrigoni's murder . 
noLabel	Less than 8% of those who initially attend GA remain in the program and abstinent from gambling for over a year .	Program participation and abstinence increase if members are involved in additional therapy, or if one or more of their family members are involved in Gam-Anon or Gam-A-Teen .
noLabel	American interest in the region has waned, since the September 11, 2001 attacks, the Bush administration in the United States has made "terrorism" the focus of its foreign policy.	Although the United States maintains a force of 28,500 troops in South Korea (the second largest U.S. troop deployment in East Asia), it is likely that that deployment would be considerably decreased if the political situation changed significantly in Korea, something expected to reduce U.S. influence in the region. 
noLabel	The Carolina Abecedarian Project began in 1972 and aimed to discover the long-term effects of early educational intervention on at-risk children born into poor families.	As infants, the children were randomly assigned to either the control group or the experimental group, and for five years, the experimental group was provided with extensive care in a daycare center.
noLabel	After finishing law school, Rangel passed the state bar exam and was hired by Weaver, Evans & Wingate, the city's most prominent black law firm .	Rangel made little money in private practice, but did build a positive reputation for providing legal assistance to black civil rights activists .
noLabel	Following a period of fighting lasting around a hundred years before 620 AD which mainly involved Arab and Jewish inhabitants of Medina (then known as Yathrib), religious freedom for Muslims, Jews and pagans was declared by Muhammad in the Constitution of Medina.	The Islamic Caliphate later guaranteed religious freedom under the conditions that non-Muslim communities accept dhimmi (second class) status and their adult males pay the jizya tax as a substitute for the zakat paid by Muslim citizens.
noLabel	Soon after, Space Invaders was licensed for the Atari VCS (later known as Atari 2600), becoming the first "killer app" and quadrupling the console's sales .	The success of the Atari 2600 in turn revived the home video game market during the second generation of consoles, up until the North American video game crash of 1983 .
noLabel	The resolution calls on the UN Secretary General to report to the General Assembly within three months "with a view to considering further action, if necessary, by the relevant United Nations organs and bodies", and to send the report to the Security Council .	The resolution enjoyed wide support among the Non-Aligned Movement bloc and the Arab bloc that comprise a majority of 120 votes.
noLabel	After the Rose Bowl victory by TCU over Wisconsin (who had defeated the Buckeyes earlier in the season), billboards appeared in the Columbus area congratulating TCU on its win, and which were signed by "The Little Sisters Of The Poor" as a jibe to Dr. Gee's remarks, which he nominally apologized for after the game.	Later, he performed a day of community service at a nursing home operated by a convent group known Little Sisters of the Poor, although he added that he had no idea they existed when he made the comments . 
noLabel	Key stage 4 (age 14-16) By marrying scientific research with empathy and imagination, students can write the diary of a young person taking steroids.	First, discuss the circumstances and reasons why a young person may take them and then they can carry out research (see weblinks below) to find out about the effects.
noLabel	This conception of the magistrates and the association of wise people as best representants of the people separated them from modern conception of democracy, as they restricted effective power to a minority.	Max Weber considered them in his lecture Politics as a Vocation as participants of the movement of rationalization of law in Europe. 
noLabel	NEA has played a role in politics since its founding, as it has sought to influence state and federal laws that would have an impact on public education.	Every political position adopted by NEA was brought by one of its members to the annual Representative Assembly, where it was considered on the floor, debated, and voted on by elected delegates. 
noLabel	Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 is a dystopian novel where books are outlawed and it is the job of a "fireman" to burn them.	In the introduction of the 1967 Simon and Schuster book club edition, Bradbury implies that the Nazi book burnings drove him to write the short story "The Fireman" which was the precursor along with the foundation for his novel Fahrenheit 451, stating, "It follows then that when Hitler burned a book I felt it as keenly, please forgive me, as his killing a human, for in the long sum of history they are one and the same flesh."
noLabel	For example, suppose that governing Blue-dot party wishes to reduce the seats that will be won by opposition Red-dot party in the next election.	It creates a number of constituencies in each of which the Red-dot party has an overwhelming majority of votes (such as the district in the lower left hand corner.)
noLabel	This was taken as an indication that the pope and those close to him believed that he was nearing death; it would have been in accordance with his wishes to die in the Vatican.	Later that day, Vatican sources announced that John Paul II had been given the Anointing of the Sick by his friend and secretary Stanisław Dziwisz.
noLabel	Nuclear warfare (sometimes atomic warfare or thermonuclear warfare), is a military conflict or political strategy in which nuclear weaponry is used to inflict damage on an opponent.	Compared to conventional warfare, nuclear warfare can be vastly more destructive in range and extent of damage, and in a much shorter time scale.
noLabel	Biomass for heat and power is a fully mature technology which offers a ready disposal mechanism for municipal, agricultural, and industrial organic wastes.	However, the industry has remained relatively stagnant over the decade to 2007, even though demand for biomass (mostly wood) continues to grow in many developing countries.
noLabel	The authors also confirmed that the SES achievement gap continues to grow after schooling starts, with summer learning accounting for the vast majority of the difference.	While the average kindergarten learning rate was 1.65 test points per month, a standard deviation’s advantage in SES predicted a relative gain of 0.16 points per month during summer, 0.07 points per month during kindergarten, and 0.05 points per month during first grade.
noLabel	The first explicit description that un petit linge (a small cloth) was used to prevent pregnancy is from 1655: a French novel and play titled L'Escole des Filles (The Philosophy of Girls).	In 1666, the English Birth Rate Commission attributed a recent downward fertility rate to use of "condons", the first documented use of that word (or any similar spelling) . 
noLabel	But the evil of sin, though permitted by God, is in no sense due to him; its cause is the abuse of free will by angels and men.	It should be observed that the universal perfection to which evil in some form is necessary, is the perfection of this universe, not of any universe: metaphysical evil, that is to say, and indirectly, moral evil as well, is included in the design of the universe which is partially known to us; but we cannot say without denying the Divine omnipotence, that another equally perfect universe could not be created in which evil would have no place .
noLabel	The Virginia NAACP filed suit in federal court in 1956 to have the five barratry, champerty, and maintenance laws thrown out as an unconstitutional infringement of the 1st Amendment rights of freedom of speech and freedom of assembly .	A three-judge panel of a U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia agreed that three of the laws were unconstitutional, but reserved judgment on the other two laws pending interpretation by state courts (which had not yet ruled on the laws' legality) .
noLabel	 Dutch foreign minister Maxime Verhagen said both Israel and the Palestinian Authority must investigate war crimes allegations, saying "there can be no impunity for serious human rights violations both on the Palestinian and the Israeli side".	Verhagen also urged Israel to halt building settlements in the West Bank, calling the practice a serious obstacle to peace, which "will have to stop" .
noLabel	Wood from the park's forests is used by many of those people as firewood, as lumber for construction, and in the production of charcoal.	Deforestation caused by subsistence living is an acute threat to the park in general, and to the habitat of the critically endangered mountain gorilla in particular .
noLabel	TIPS spreads: A key measure of inflation expectations among U.S. bond market investors is the difference between the yield on nominal Treasury bonds and the yield for Treasury inflation-protected securities, or “TIPS.” This difference is a gauge of investors’ beliefs about future U.S. inflation rates.	A growing spread between nominal Treasuries and TIPS would indicate that investors are concerned that U.S. fiscal and monetary policy could lead to higher inflation in the future . 
noLabel	In parts of Namibia, where such a program pays only $13 a month, people were able to pay tuition fees, raising the proportion of children going to school by 92%, while child malnutrition rates fell from 42% to 10% and economic activity grew by 10% .	Proponents argue that a basic income is more economically efficient than a minimum wage and unemployment benefits, as the minimum wage effectively imposes a high marginal tax on employers, causing losses in efficiency. 
noLabel	Otherwise the archives - containing a vast number of documents relating to the 1500-years' history of the Abbey as well as some 1400 irreplaceable manuscript codices, chiefly patristic and historical - would have been destroyed in the Allied air bombing which almost completely destroyed the Abbey shortly afterwards.	Also saved by the two officers' prompt action were the collections of the Keats-Shelley Memorial House in Rome which had been sent to the Abbey for safety in December 1942.
noLabel	On April 20, 2010, an explosion destroyed an offshore drilling rig at the Macondo Prospect in the Gulf of Mexico, causing a major sustained oil leak.	The well's operator, BP, initiated a containment and cleanup plan, and began drilling two relief wells intended to stop the flow.
noLabel	Nearly all states have a binding primary or caucus, in which the results of the election legally bind some or all of the delegates to vote for a particular candidate at the national convention, for a certain number of ballots or until the candidate releases the delegates.	Some binding primaries are winner-take-all contests, in which all of a state's delegates are required to vote for the same candidate.
noLabel	They improve the reliability of power generation by producing power close to the end-user, and minimise the need to produce, transport and store hazardous fuels.	Unlike generators relying on uranium and recycled plutonium, renewable energy is naturally replenished and not subject to the volatility of global fuel markets .
noLabel	The FCTC compels signatories to advance activity on the full range of tobacco control fronts, including limiting interactions between legislators and the tobacco industry, imposing taxes upon tobacco products and carrying out demand reduction, protecting people from exposure to second-hand smoke in indoor workplaces and public places through smoke-free laws, regulating and disclosing the contents and emissions of tobacco products, posting highly visible health warnings upon tobacco packaging, removing deceptive labelling (e.g.	'light' or 'mild'), improving public awareness of the consequences of smoking, prohibiting all tobacco advertising, provision of cessation programmes, effective counter-measures to smuggling of tobacco products, restriction of sales to minors and relevant research and information-sharing among the signatories. 
noLabel	Theology which, when it separates from mythology raises the power of nature above nature itself and thus alienates the two (i.e.	"nature", all that actually exists, from its power, now personified in a being outside nature), is by contrast a pernicious force in human affairs without parallel . 
noLabel	At the Democratic National Convention in Denver, Colorado, Hillary Clinton called for her supporters to endorse Obama, and she and Bill Clinton gave convention speeches in his support .	Obama delivered his acceptance speech, not at the center where the Democratic National Convention was held, but at Invesco Field at Mile High to a crowd of over 75,000; the speech was viewed by over 38&nbsp;million people worldwide . 
noLabel	Distraught and desperate that these collusions by the custodians of justice, founder of BBA Kailash Satyarthi, Chairperson of Global March Against Child Labour appealed to the Honorable Chief Justice of Delhi High Court through a letter at 11.00 pm .	This order by the Honorable Chief Justice comes when the government is taking an extremely reactionary stance on the issue of child labour in sweatshops in India and threatening 'retaliatory measures' against child rights organisations . 
noLabel	Ken Livingstone, former mayor of the City of London, was accused of antisemitism for a variety of comments, including remarks criticizing Israel's treatment of Palestinians.	In response, Livingstone wrote "For 20 years Israeli governments have attempted to portray anyone who forcefully criticizes the policies of Israel as anti-semitic.
noLabel	Huth outlines that a threat is considered credible if the defending state possesses both the military capabilities to inflict substantial costs on an attacking state in an armed conflict, and if the attacking state believes that the defending state is resolved to use its available military forces.	Huth goes on to explain the four key factors for consideration under rational deterrence theory being (i) the military balance; (ii) signaling and bargaining power; (iii) reputations for resolve; and (iv) interests at stake. 
noLabel	In dissent, Ginsburg argued that the decision departed from established abortion jurisprudence, and that lack of a health exception "jeopardizes women’s health and places doctors in an untenable position."	The replacement of O'Connor by Alito was identified as a key difference between the 5-4 decision against the Nebraska law in Stenberg and the 5-4 support for the abortion ban in Gonzalez .
noLabel	Although the UK designed, manufactured and owns the warheads, there is evidence that the warhead design is similar to, or even based on, the US W76 warhead fitted in some US Navy Trident missiles, with design data being supplied by the United States through the 1958 US-UK Mutual Defence Agreement .	The United Kingdom owns 58 missiles which are shared in a joint pool with the United States government and these are exchanged when requiring maintenance with missiles from the United States Navy's own pool and vice versa. 
noLabel	He also said that Israel's action is a breach of the UN International Maritime Organization Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Maritime Navigation (SUA), which was signed by Israel in April 2009.	He said that according to the article 6.1 of the SUA, the jurisdiction over the offences that a ship might have committed lies in the state whose flag the ship is flying .
noLabel	In November 2010, Palin confirmed that she was considering running for the Presidency, and was "having that discussion with my family."	She stated she realised her level of experience could cause problems with winning the nomination, and criticized the "lamestream media" for focusing attention on her personal life . 
noLabel	U.S. State Department officials are aware that Mexican president Felipe Calderón’s willingness to work with the United States is unprecedented on issues of security, crime and drugs, so the U.S. Congress passed legislation in late June 2008 to provide Mexico and Central American countries with $1.6 billion USD for the Mérida Initiative, a three-year international assistance plan.	The Mérida Initiative provides Mexico and Central American countries with law enforcement training and equipment, as well as technical advice to strengthen the national justice systems.
noLabel	Jurisdictions resolve this tension in different ways, in particular in determining where the burden of proof lies when unfounded allegations are made.	The power of the internet to disseminate comment, which may include malicious comment, has brought a new focus to the issue . 
noLabel	Ali was eventually arrested and found guilty on draft evasion charges; he was stripped of his boxing title, and his boxing license was suspended.	He was not imprisoned, but did not fight again for nearly four years while his appeal worked its way up to the U.S. Supreme Court, where it was eventually successful. 
noLabel	The United States government, however, viewed Sanctuary members as citizens of the nation who were acting politically and in defiance of federal laws.	They rejected movement members' claims to international law's applicability inside U.S. courtrooms, as well as arguments that they were acting out of solely religious motivation. 
noLabel	Although often criticized for his extravagances, such as the Palace of Versailles, he reigned over France for a long period, and some historians consider him a successful absolute monarch.	More recently, revisionist historians have questioned whether Louis' reign should be considered 'absolute', given the reality of the balance of power between the monarch and the nobility . 
noLabel	"In contrast with the fears of many Arab governments, the Arab public does not appear to see Iran as a major threat.	Most believe that Iran has the right to its nuclear program and do not support international pressure to force it to curtail its program.
noLabel	For example, the scope of “implied license” conjecture remains unclear and can compromise an enterprise’s ability to patent productions made with open source software.	Another example is the case of companies offering add-ons for purchase; licensees who make additions to the open-source code that are similar to those for purchase may have immunity from patent suits. 
noLabel	John McCain will fight to save the future of Social Security and believes that we may meet our obligations to the retirees of today and the future without raising taxes.	John McCain supports supplementing the current Social Security system with personal accounts – but not as a substitute for addressing benefit promises that cannot be kept . 
noLabel	The Fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution and Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution limit the power of the federal and state governments to discriminate.	The Fifth amendment has an explicit requirement that the federal government not deprive individuals of "life, liberty, or property", without due process of the law.
noLabel	These acts were largely ineffective and after radical agitation, by for example the "Short Time Committees" in 1831, a Royal Commission recommended in 1833 that children aged 11–18 should work a maximum of 12 hours per day, children aged 9–11 a maximum of eight hours, and children under the age of nine were no longer permitted to work.	This act however only applied to the textile industry, and further agitation led to another act in 1847 limiting both adults and children to 10 hour working days. 
noLabel	To date, the only such simulation to compare a wide variety of voting systems was run by a range-voting advocate and was not published in a peer-reviewed journal .	It found that Range voting consistently scored as either the best system or among the best across the various conditions studied . 
noLabel	Offshore wind energy projects in federal waters are subject to permitting based on lease agreements given by the Secretary of the Department of the Interior with BOEMRE.	The President announced on April 22, 2009 that the Interior Department completed the Final Renewable Energy Framework to govern management of the Renewable Energy Program.
noLabel	Opinion polls among first and second generation muslim immigrants in western Europe show relatively little acceptance of secular ideas such as separation of religion and state, religious freedom, LGBT rights, gender equality and woman rights.	In the UK, a Gallup poll showed that none of the 500 British Muslims polled believed homosexuality to be "morally acceptable", compared with 35% of the 1001 French Muslims polled .
noLabel	The rules agreed at these meetings are wide ranging - from agreeing on acceptable bed times to making nudity allowed around the pool and within the classroom.	Meetings are also an opportunity for the community to vote on a course of action for unresolved conflicts, such as a fine for a theft (usually the fine consists of having to pay back the amount stolen). 
noLabel	Thus the right of individual families to determine whether or not to balance gender of offspring in their families is not and will not become, in many countries, a demographic issue.	Furthermore, in countries where such demographic issues exist because of strong gender preferences in a segment of the population, regulatory and legal control of, without denial of access to, sperm sorting technology can be utilized to provide individuals with choices while ensuring that equal numbers of boys and girls are produced for population demographic equality. 
noLabel	The player usually views the events from behind the eyes of the character (a first-person shooter) or from a camera that follows the character, usually a few feet behind (a third-person shooter).	It is also possible for a game to have a fixed camera, especially shooting gallery games and some 2D overhead shooters such as Robotron 2084.
noLabel	“If we are to target individuals whose leave may have expired..then we would need a very different system of internal immigration control than we have at the moment, and targeting individuals in order to ensure that they are removed is not, I believe, an effective enforcement strategy.	What we need to have is a very clear set of priorities which are ranked…in terms of the harm that people who are here unlawfully cause the UK and target our resources accordingly”. 
noLabel	The Economist magazine, writing at the same time, went further, saying "the worldwide rise in house prices is the biggest bubble in history" .	Real estate bubbles are (by definition of the word "bubble") followed by a price decrease (also known as a housing price crash) that can result in many owners holding negative equity (a mortgage debt higher than the current value of the property).
noLabel	"Irish Stand Down" is a term for a type of traditional bare knuckle fighting where the aspect of maneuvering around the ring is removed, leaving only the less nuanced aspects of punching and "taking" punches.	This form of combat was popular in Irish American ghettos in the United States in the late 19th century but was eclipsed in the Irish American community first by bare knuckle boxing and then later by regulation boxing.
noLabel	Some senior Catholic authorities, such as Belgian Cardinal Emeritus Godfried Danneels, believe the Catholic Church should support condoms used to prevent serious diseases such as AIDS, because non-use is tantamount to murder .	In 2003 BBC's Panorama claimed that the Vatican is intentionally spreading lies that HIV can pass through the membrane of the condom . 
noLabel	Another concern, according to University of California professor Barbara Epstein, is that the Internet "allows people who agree with each other to talk to each other and gives them the impression of being part of a much larger network than is necessarily the case."	She warns that the impersonal nature of communication by computer may actually undermine the human contact that always has been crucial to social movements . 
noLabel	That is why thousands of people, led by the NAACP, marched on the New York headquarters of Koch Industries two weeks ago en route to a rally for voting rights at the United Nations.	Despite the media attention showered on the Iowa caucuses, the real election outcomes in 2012 will likely hinge more on the contest between billionaire political funders like the Kochs and the thousands of people in the streets, demanding one person, one vote.ΓÇó Denis Moynihan contributed research to this column.┬⌐ 2011 Amy Goodman; distributed by King Features Syndicate 
noLabel	Historically, nicotine has not been regarded as a carcinogen and the IARC has not evaluated nicotine in its standalone form and assigned it to an official carcinogen group.	While no epidemiological evidence supports that nicotine alone acts as a carcinogen in the formation of human cancer, research over the last decade has identified nicotine's carcinogenic potential in animal models and cell culture .
noLabel	In November 1975, the Osaka branch of the Buraku Liberation League was tipped off about the existence of a book called "A Comprehensive List of Buraku Area Names" ( Tokushu Buraku Chimei Sōkan).	Investigations revealed that copies of the hand-written 330-page book were being secretly sold by an Osaka-based firm to numerous firms and individuals throughout Japan by a mail order service called Cablenet, at between ¥5,000 and ¥50,000 per copy. 
noLabel	To "keep and bear arms" for hunting today is essentially a recreational activity and not an imperative of survival, as it was 200 years ago.	"Saturday night specials" and machine guns are not recreational weapons and surely are as much in need of regulation as motor vehicles."
noLabel	In October 2009, Suncor announced it was seeking government approval for a new process to recover tailings called Tailings Reduction Operations, which accelerates the settling of fine clay, sand, water, and residual bitumen in ponds after oil sands extraction.	The technology involves dredging mature tailings from a pond bottom, mixing the suspension with a polymer flocculent, and spreading the sludge-like mixture over a "beach" with a shallow grade.
noLabel	" Gillespie asserted, "Our Draw Mohammed contest is not a frivolous exercise of hip, ironic, hoolarious sacrilege toward a minority religion in the United States (though even that deserves all the protection that the most serioso political commentary commands).	It's a defense of what is at the core of a society that is painfully incompetent at delivering on its promise of freedom, tolerance, and equal rights.
noLabel	It is noteworthy that Eliezer was not instructed to find a virgin bride, nor is anything further said about the prospective bride's virgin status.	and deal with the requirement for a man who seduces or rapes a virgin to marry her and pay a bride price at the virgin rate, which presumably is higher than that for a non-virgin. 
noLabel	As the industrial revolution approached America, the harvesting wagons that transported leaves were equipped with man powered stringers, an apparatus that used twine to attach leaves to a pole.	In modern times large fields are harvested by a single piece of farm equipment, though topping the flower and in some cases the plucking of immature leaves is still done by hand. 
noLabel	Shortly after, in June, Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip in the course of the Battle of Gaza, seizing government institutions and replacing Fatah and other government officials with its own .	Following the takeover, Egypt and Israel largely sealed their border crossings with Gaza, on the grounds that Fatah had fled and was no longer providing security on the Palestinian side . 
noLabel	An order for reconsideration is sought by making a written request to the High Court in England and Wales or the Court of Session (Outer House) in Scotland.	For an indefinite period requests for reconsideration orders will be considered initially by Immigration judges of the AIT ("the filter"); should the request be refused a party can "opt-in" to the High Court or Court of Session. 
noLabel	In the following generation, John Locke sought to answer Filmer, creating a rationale for a balanced constitution in which the monarch had a part to play, but not an overwhelming part.	Since Filmer's views essentially require that the Stuart family be uniquely descended from the patriarchs of the Bible, and since even in the late 17th century that was a difficult view to uphold, Locke attacked Filmer's views in his First Treatise on Government, freeing him to set out his own views in the Second Treatise on Civil Government.
noLabel	Direct consumption includes the use of lubricants and fuels to operate farm vehicles and machinery; and use of gas, liquid propane, and electricity to power dryers, pumps, lights, heaters, and coolers.	American farms directly consumed about 1.2 exajoules (1.1 quadrillion BTU) in 2002, or just over 1 percent of the nation's total energy . 
noLabel	In several countries, such as in Finland, firearm politics and gun control are directly linked on the armed forces' reserves and reservist training.	This is especially true in countries which base their armies on conscription; since every able-bodied citizen is basically a soldier, they are expected to be able to handle the gun reasonably, and be able to practice for the time of need. 
noLabel	The Chief of the Air Staff Arthur Tedder officially requested an atomic weapon in August 1946, but work on a British equivalent to the vast American facilities at Hanford, Washington and Oak Ridge, Tennessee began in February 1946.	American refusal to continue nuclear cooperation (except in certain non weapons-related areas in exchange for uranium from the British-controlled supply in the Belgian Congo) only affected the amount of cooperation the British expected to receive, for the government had decided that atomic weapons were vital to the nation regardless of cost: .
noLabel	If neither candidate is their sincere first or last choice, the voter is employing both the compromising and burying strategies at once.	If many different groups voters use this strategy, this gives a paradoxical advantage to the candidate who is generally thought least-likely to win.
noLabel	Individualism allows for others' interest and well-being to be disregarded or not, as long as what is chosen is efficacious in satisfying the self-interest of the agent.	Nor does ethical egoism necessarily entail that, in pursuing self-interest, one ought always to do what one wants to do; e.g.
noLabel	German physicists who worked on the Uranverein and were sent to the Soviet Union to work on the Soviet atomic bomb project included: Werner Czulius, Robert Döpel, Walter Herrmann, Heinz Pose, Ernst Rexer, Nikolaus Riehl, and Karl Zimmer.	Günter Wirths, while not a member of the Uranverein, worked for Riehl at the Auergesellschaft on reactor-grade uranium production and was also sent to the Soviet Union. 
noLabel	Genocide denial was illegal in Spain until the Constitutional Court of Spain ruled that the words "deny or" were unconstitutional in its judgement of November 7, 2007 .	As a result, Holocaust denial is legal in Spain, although justifying the Holocaust or any other genocide is an offence punishable by imprisonment in accordance with the constitution .
noLabel	Mr Wyatt stressed that the committee did not want to impose a ban on boxing but believed that greater safeguards needed to be introduced.	He said: "A full and proper independent investigation needs to be held into boxing and the long term damage it is causing boxers.
noLabel	The New Zealand public are generally in favour of the retention of the monarchy, with recent polls showing it to have between 50 and 70% support.	 Polls indicate that many New Zealanders see the monarchy as being of little day-to-day relevance; a One News Colmar Brunton poll in 2002 found that 58% of the population believed the monarchy has little or no relevance to their lives.
noLabel	Once the leaves have aged properly, they are sorted for use as filler or wrapper based upon their appearance and overall quality.	During this process, the leaves are continually moistened and handled carefully to ensure each leaf is best used according to its individual qualities.
noLabel	Nor were his issues completely over; the National Legal and Policy Center, which had acted against him before, filed a complaint with the Federal Election Commission alleging that he had improperly paid legal bills from a political action committee .	To cover both ongoing and past legal expenses, he established a legal defense fund (whose creation was approved by the House Ethics Committee) . 
noLabel	The use of these rare hardwoods by local people is limited and sustainable, unlike the unsustainable exploitation from illegal and government-approved logging for international markets .	The logging of rosewoods and ebonies in Madagascar can be traced back more than twenty years prior to the 2009 Malagasy political crisis .
noLabel	Y1 is a strain of tobacco cross-bred by Brown & Williamson in the 1970s to obtain an unusually high nicotine content.	In the 1990s, the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) used it as evidence that tobacco companies were intentionally manipulating the nicotine content of cigarettes .
noLabel	Both Patrick Dunleavy and Lynsey Hanley agree that architects and planners were influenced by Le Corbusier’s promotion of high-rise architecture .	The modern tower blocks were to include features that would foster desired forms of resident interaction, an example being the inclusion of Le Corbusier’s streets in the sky in some estates . 
noLabel	As such, game designers, developers, and marketers that describe themselves as non-violent video game makers, as well as certain reviewers and members of the non-violent gaming community, employ the term to describe games with comparatively little or no violence.	The definition has been applied flexibly to games in such purposive genres as the Christian video game, however a number of games at the fringe of the "non-violence" label can only be viewed as objectively violent. 
noLabel	Iran has advanced biology and genetic engineering research programs supporting an industry that produces world-class vaccines for both domestic use and export .	The dual-use nature of these facilities means that Iran, like any country with advanced biological research programs, could easily produce biological warfare agents. 
noLabel	The FUTA tax rate was originally three percent of taxable wages collected from employers who employed at least four employees, and employers could deduct up to 90 percent of the amount due if they paid taxes to a state to support a system of unemployment insurance which met Federal standards, but the rules have changed as follows.	The FUTA tax rate is now, effective after June 30, 2011, 6.0 percent of taxable wages of employees who meet both the above and following criteria, and the taxable wage base is the first $7,000 paid in wages to each employee during a calendar year .
noLabel	The Mutual Security Assistance Pact of 1954 initially involved a military aid program that provided for Japan's acquisition of funds, matériel, and services for the nation's essential defense.	Although Japan no longer received any aid from the United States by the 1960s, the agreement continued to serve as the basis for purchase and licensing agreements ensuring interoperability of the two nations' weapons and for the release of classified data to Japan, including both international intelligence reports and classified technical information.
noLabel	“the gangs have transferred the knowledge, facilities and networks used for smuggling drugs and other commodities to a highly profitable new endeavour.	Many actively recruit potential immigrants in source countries, provide escorts and safe houses en route and are increasingly providing support on arrival such as legal advice to lodge asylum applications.
noLabel	Efforts in the United States soon shifted towards developing miniaturized Teller–Ulam weapons which could easily outfit intercontinental ballistic missiles and submarine-launched ballistic missiles.	By 1960, with the W47 warhead deployed on Polaris ballistic missile submarines, megaton-class warheads were as small as 18&nbsp;inches (0.5 m) in diameter and 720 pounds (320&nbsp;kg) in weight.
noLabel	The LA/VP weight gain ratio from rat experiments is not unitary for testosterone (typically 0.3–0.4), but it is normalized for presentation purposes, and used as basis of comparison for other AAS, which have their androgenic:anabolic ratios scaled accordingly (as shown in the table above) .	In the early 2000s, this procedure was standardized and generalized throughout OECD in what is now known as the Hershberger assay.
noLabel	Six months after implementation in Wales, the Licensed Victuallers Association (LVA), which represents pub operators across Wales, claimed that pubs had lost up to 20% of their trade.	The LVA said some businesses were on the brink of closure, others had already closed down, and there was little optimism trade would eventually return to previous levels . 
noLabel	Following the September 11, 2001 attacks, the privilege is increasingly used to dismiss entire court cases, instead of only withholding the sensitive information from a case .	Also in 2001, George W. Bush issued Executive Order 13233 extending the accessibility of the state secrets privilege to also allow former presidents, their designated representatives, or representatives designated by their families, to invoke it to bar records from their tenure . 
noLabel	Resettlement involves a number of difficulties, most of them involving the often extreme cultural transition needed to adapt to life in the country of resettlement.	For the many refugees going from rural undeveloped countries to life in urban centers, public transport, education, health care systems, job applications, and even grocery shopping can be difficult to navigate.
noLabel	Over 44 million households use biogas made in household-scale digesters for lighting and/or cooking, and more than 166 million households rely on a new generation of more-efficient biomass cookstoves .	United Nations' Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon has said that renewable energy has the ability to lift the poorest nations to new levels of prosperity . 
noLabel	The 1972 Rockefeller Commission on Population and the American Future is one of the better known early versions of this claim, but it was surely not the first .	The Commission cited research purporting that the children of women denied an abortion "turned out to have been registered more often with psychiatric services, engaged in more antisocial and criminal behavior, and have been more dependent on public assistance."
noLabel	Moreover, some potential recipients might not receive a subsidy, due to factors such as poor advertising, a difficult, expensive or time-consuming process to claim the subsidy, or corruption.	In the worst case scenario, a subsidy could have no effect whatsoever, other than making the recipients of the subsidy financially better off than they would otherwise have been.
noLabel	Immigration Officers operating port controls have always been acutely aware of the risks posed to children by traffickers and others who pose a risk and have worked with police and social services to ensure that the interests of the child are put first.	The role of immigration staff in child protection is a vital one where, for foreign children coming to the UK, the immigration staff may be the only government officials with whom they come into contact. 
noLabel	Up until 2004, recipients of asylee status faced a wait of approximately fourteen years to receive permanent resident status after receiving their initial status, because of an annual cap of 10,000 green cards for this class of individuals.	However, in May 2005, under the terms of a proposed settlement of a class-action lawsuit, Ngwanyia v. Gonzales, brought on behalf of asylees against CIS, the government agreed to make available an additional 31,000 green cards for asylees during the period ending on September 30, 2007.
noLabel	In the ABC Family television show The Secret Life of the American Teenager centers on Amy Juergens, a 15-year-old who becomes a teenage mother after a one night stand.	In the popular Comedy Central television show South Park the character Carol McCormick was said to have had her sons Kevin McCormick at 13, and Kenny McCormick at 16.
noLabel	The national sport of England is cricket, but England has no team of its own, instead fielding a joint team with Wales.	The England & Wales cricket team, controlled by the England and Wales Cricket Board, (commonly shortened to just "England" & "ECB" respectively) is the only national team in the UK with Test status.
noLabel	Michael Lerner suggests that some United States politicians are reluctant to criticise Israel because they are afraid of being labelled anti-Semitic .	Lerner also states that groups that promote peace in the mid-East are afraid to form coalitions, lest they be discredited by what Lerner terms the "Jewish Establishment" .
noLabel	In the UK 500 MW of such plant is routinely started within a few minutes; this is perfectly acceptable to the engines' service life in a scheme operated by National Grid called National Grid Reserve Service.	It has been established that there is 20 GW of such diesel plant in the UK and it has been pointed out that there is no technical reason why this quantity could not be brought into the Reserve Service scheme to assist handling very rapid changes in renewable output, whilst conventional plant is started or indeed stopped .
noLabel	Free trade is generally considered to achieve an overall increase in utility in a society, but it can also create winners and losers (see Stolper–Samuelson theorem).	Individuals can be made worse off by an opening of trade but society has a whole should theoretically have more wealth.
noLabel	In the long term, China faces increasing urbanization; according to predictions, nearly 70% of the population will live in urban areas by 2035.	Over the next two decades China will build 20,000 to 50,000 new skyscrapers and more than 170 cities will require mass transit systems by 2025.
noLabel	Ahmadinejad was praised by Syrian Author Muhammad Nimr Al-Madani (author of "Were the Jews Burned in the Ovens?, Beirut: Al-Manara, 2001), who has previously claimed that "Hitler Was Falsely Accused of Committing Genocide against the Jews".	In an interview on Al-Alam TV (Iran), Al-Madani stated that "I was very happy when the Iranian president denied the Holocaust.
noLabel	The subsequent confrontation with IAEA on the issue of inspections and suspected violations, resulted in North Korea threatening to withdraw from the NPT in 1993.	This eventually led to negotiations with the United States resulting in the Agreed Framework of 1994, which provided for IAEA safeguards being applied to its reactors and spent fuel rods.
noLabel	With the appearance of the first oral contraceptives in 1960, dissenters in the Church argued for a reconsideration of the Church positions.	In 1963 Pope John XXIII established a commission of six European non-theologians to study questions of birth control and population .
noLabel	The scope of the protection afforded by this Article has been interpreted restrictively by the judiciary, largely as a result of the wording of the Article, which qualifies the right before articulating it.	Indeed, until an authoritative pronouncement on the issue by the Supreme Court, many believed that the protection was restricted to "convictions and opinions" and, as a result, a separate right to communicate was, by necessity, implied into Article 40.3.2.
noLabel	The Toronto Sun said the attack damaged Israel's reputation and suggested it "might have wanted to rethink the orders that led to Monday's fatal clash."	It reasoned that this, along with the Dubai assassination of a Hamas leader, "left a trail of evidence a mile wide, to put a dent in the reputation of the country’s legendary intelligence and security operations. "
noLabel	The Israeli ambassador to Ireland, Zion Evrony, was summoned to the Irish Department of Foreign Affairs, after appearing on the radio programme Today with Pat Kenny where he explained "This is what soldiers do," and said it was "a sad result" that "a few [activists] were killed.	" Martin sent his condolences to the Turkish government on the loss of their citizens and to Turkish families who were affected by the tragedy .
noLabel	As noted above, scholars acknowledge that some racial and ethnic minorities, particularly African Americans, are disproportionately represented in the arrest and victimization reports which are used to compile crime rate statistics in the United States.	The data from 2008 reveals that, though White Americans constituted the vast majority of total arrests made, African Americans were disproportionately represented in all forms of violent crime and property crime, as well as in the three measured forms of white-collar crime, with the average rates of representation 2 to 3 times higher than African American representation in the general population .
noLabel	In fact, the Federal Interagency on Child and Family Statistics reported that the number of juveniles might reach 101.6 million by 2050.	If the juveniles delinquency rates were to increase with the population, or even plateau, this would translate into thousands of more juvenile delinquents .
noLabel	Austerity is mainly noticed by a country when its aspects (usually known as 'cuts') are implemented unilaterally and forcibly (a "hatchet job") rather than through a more careful strategy of creeping normalcy wherein such cuts are made to seem reasonable, or at least tolerable.	Austerity is usually only referred to by that name when it is part of a sweeping package or packages of reforms that have the openly-admitted effect of great or even complete overhaul of major aspects of a society's socioeconomic core facilities, programs and/or services.
noLabel	Although it was clear by 1941 that the SS hierarchy was determined to embark on a policy of killing all the Jews under German control, there was still opposition to this policy within the Nazi regime, although the motive was economic, not humanitarian.	Hermann Göring, who had overall control of the German war industry, and the German army's Economics Department, argued that the enormous Jewish labor force assembled in the General Government area (more than a million able-bodied workers) was an asset too valuable to waste while Germany was preparing to invade the Soviet Union.
noLabel	Several rare but painful episodes of assassination, attempted assassination and shootings in schools and universities in the United States led to a considerable body of research on ascertainable behaviors of persons who have planned or carried out such attacks.	These studies (1995-2002) investigated what the authors called "targeted violence," described the "path to violence" of those who planned or carried out attacks, and laid out suggestions for law enforcement and educators.
noLabel	Agreements in particular between richer and poorer developing countries risk generating trade losses for the poorer ones when their imports are diverted toward the richer members whose firms are not internationally competitive.	However, where regional arrangements lead to the reduction of non-tariff barriers, trade creation is likely, and the dynamic benefits of effective regional integration in terms of improved governance and regional stability are likely to outweigh diversion concerns.
noLabel	In some cultures, a female is encouraged or required to marry at a very early age so that she will not have the opportunity to lose her virginity before marriage, or so that a girl can experience her sexuality from an early age.	In some cultures, for example in many modern-day Western cultures, sexual abstinence before marriage is not valued, and in some cultures, abstention is discouraged. 
noLabel	Hutchison announced her intention to resign her Senate post in the autumn of 2009 in order to challenge Texas Governor Perry for the Republican Party nomination .	State Republican Chairman Cathie Adams later called upon Hutchison to clarify when she would vacate the Senate so that other Republican candidates can make preparation for their races . 
noLabel	Its explosion yielded 10.4 megatons of energy&mdash;over 450 times the power of the bomb dropped onto Nagasaki&mdash; and obliterated Elugelab, leaving an underwater crater 6240&nbsp;ft (1.9&nbsp;km) wide and 164&nbsp;ft (50 m) deep where the island had once been.	Truman had initially tried to create a media blackout about the test&mdash;hoping it would not become an issue in the upcoming presidential election&mdash;but on January 7, 1953, Truman announced the development of the hydrogen bomb to the world as hints and speculations of it were already beginning to emerge in the press. 
noLabel	Sampson (1993) claims that any theory of crime must begin with the fact that most violent criminals belonged to teenage peer-groups, particularly street gangs, and that a gang member will become a full-time criminal if social controls are insufficient to address delinquent behaviour at an early age.	He follows Shaw and McKay (1969) in accepting that if the family and relatives offer inadequate supervision or incomplete socialisation, children from broken families are more likely to join violent gangs unless others take the parents' place.
noLabel	He will promise a fellow legislator an IOU vote for another piece of legislation in return for a vote on his own act or bill.	Legislators who logroll within a small body, for example, the US House or Senate, have incentive to honor their IOU votes because they cannot have their reputations tainted if they wish to be effective politicians (Holcombe 2006).
noLabel	In 2000, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland published a report that found that 1.6% of Americans received an inheritance of $100,000 or more and an additional 1.1% received an inheritance worth $50,000 to $100,000 while the other 91.9% of Americans did not receive an inheritance .	A 2010 report conducted by Citizens for Tax Justice found that only 0.6% of the population would pass on an inheritance in the event of death in that fiscal year.
noLabel	Homeland security is officially defined by the National Strategy for Homeland Security as "a concerted national effort to prevent terrorist attacks within the United States, reduce America's vulnerability to terrorism, and minimize the damage and recover from attacks that do occur" .	Because the U.S. Department of Homeland Security includes the Federal Emergency Management Agency, it also has responsibility for preparedness, response, and recovery to natural disasters. 
noLabel	The BMA state that in general, "the parents should determine how best to promote their children's interests, and it is for society to decide what limits should be imposed on parental choices."	They state that because the parents' interests and the child's interests sometimes differ, there are "limits on parents' rights to choose and parents are not entitled to demand medical procedures contrary to their child's best interests."
noLabel	When faced with public policy propositions for tougher controls over gun show transfers, or even bans on gun shows, anticontrol conservatives claim that blocking just one source of guns would not prevent a criminal from getting a gun.	Advocates of gun show restrictions claim that large numbers of criminals acquire guns from professional gun traffickers, who acquire their guns from gun shows . 
noLabel	Throughout the country, more than half of all U.S. electricity customers now have an option to purchase some type of green power product from a retail electricity provider.	Roughly one-quarter of the nation's utilities offer green power programs to customers, and voluntary retail sales of renewable energy in the United States totaled more than 12 billion kilowatt-hours in 2006, a 40% increase over the previous year.
noLabel	However, central government (under both the Conservative and Labour parties) considered the provision of as much new housing as possible to be a major part of post-war policy, and provided subsidies for local authorities to build such housing.	A number of types of system building proved to have serious flaws, and some flats - which were initially very popular with tenants due to their generous space standards, and with councillors and housing officials due to their speed of construction - have suffered problems, especially poor protection from damp and weather ingress, as well as other design defects and poor management. 
noLabel	The Immigration Minister, the energetic and highly regarded Bev Hughes, told the BBC and the House of Commons that she had been unaware of the allegations but later confirmed that she, or her office, had been notified of the problems 18 months before and that she had inadvertently misled the House.	Although the most likely cause of the confusion was that she had been misled by her own office and let down by its record keeping the minister was bound by the convention of ministerial responsibility and resigned. 
noLabel	Following the Love Parade stampede in Duisburg, Germany, on 24 July 2010, a local resident published internal documents of the city administration regarding the planning of Love Parade.	The city government reacted by securing a court order on 16 August forcing the removal of the documents from the site on which it was hosted .
noLabel	In more recent time, many debates have arisen that follow a pattern of faith versus reason, in particular the rise of fundamentalist and bible literalist opposition to science and liberal democracy.	Examples include the creation-evolution controversy, and controversies over the use of birth control, the separation of church and state, opposition to research into embryonic stem cells, or theological objections to vaccination, anesthesia, and blood transfusion . 
noLabel	In the special 2003 California gubernatorial race won by Republican Arnold Schwarzenegger, which did not involve a primary election and which listed 135 candidates on the ballot, concerns about vote splitting caused the Democratic party to withdraw all but one of its major candidates, and caused the Republicans to withdraw most of their candidates.	Likewise, any supporters of Republican Tom McClintock changed their mind at the last minute and voted for for Schwarzenegger for fear of the Democratic candidate, Cruz Bustamante, winning. 
noLabel	(Libyan chemical weapons stocks and chemical bombs were also destroyed on site with international verification, with Libya joining the Chemical Weapons Convention.)	Libya's noncompliance with its IAEA safeguards was reported to the U.N. Security Council, but with no action taken, as Libya's return to compliance with safeguards and Article II of the NPT was welcomed .
noLabel	The copper intrauterine device and the hormonal intrauterine device provide an up to 99% protection against pregnancies but no protection against STIs.	Women with copper intrauterine device present however a greater risk of being exposed to any type of STI, especially gonorrhea or chlamydia. 
noLabel	According to a survey conducted by pub and bar trade magazine The Publican, the anticipated increase in sales of food following intrduction of smoke-free workplaces did not immediately occur.	The trade magazine's survey of 303 pubs in the United Kingdom found the average customer spent £14.86 on food and drink at dinner in 2007, virtually identical to 2006 . 
noLabel	IAEA safeguards, together with bilateral safeguards applied under the NPT can, and do, ensure that uranium supplied by countries such as Australia and Canada does not contribute to nuclear weapons proliferation.	In fact, the worldwide application of those safeguards and the substantial world trade in uranium for nuclear electricity make the proliferation of nuclear weapons much less likely. 
noLabel	In what became known as “The Sanctuary Trials,” the defendants called upon their rights protected under both the U.S. constitution and international law.	They employed First Amendment free exercise claims, arguing they were simply living out their faith by providing refuge to their fellow brethren in need; this was the call of the Gospel and an exercise of their religion.
noLabel	Well-connected lobbyists work in Washington for years, know the issues, are highly skilled advocates, and have cultivated close connections with members of Congress, regulators, specialists, and others.	They understand strategy and have excellent communication skills; many are well suited to be able to choose which clients they would like to represent .
noLabel	Since 1959, it has organised the Aldermaston March, which is held over the Easter weekend from the Atomic Weapons Establishment near Aldermaston to Trafalgar Square, London.	The first Aldermaston March in 1958 went the other way (from London to Aldermaston) and was organised by the Direct Action Committee. 
noLabel	The IAEA's mission is guided by the interests and needs of Member States, strategic plans and the vision embodied in the IAEA Statute (see below).	Three main pillars – or areas of work – underpin the IAEA's mission: Safety and Security; Science and Technology; and Safeguards and Verification . 
noLabel	The previous system set up internationally to address the needs of IDPs was referred to as the collaborative approach as the responsibility for protecting and assisting IDPs was shared among the UN agencies, i.e.	UNHCR, Unicef, WFP, UNDP, Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, the inter-governmental organization IOM, the ICRC and International NGOs.
noLabel	This shift in development aid assistance and of course a cause of its inherent failure has drawn lots of criticism especially from the UN.	In his 2003 a dress to  , Kofi Anan sheds more light to the situation saying; "even taking all subtlety and nuance into account," developing countries made the sixth consecutive and largest ever transfer of funds to "other countries" in 2002, a sum totalling "almost $200 billion."
noLabel	Holders of a doctoral degree may be entitled or obliged to wear scarlet (a special gown in scarlet) on high days and special occasions.	While some doctoral graduates wear the mortarboard cap traditional to the lower degree levels, most wear a cap or Tudor bonnet that resembles a tam o'shanter, from which a colored tassel is suspended. 
noLabel	In 1895, one of the völkisch leaders, Hermann Ahlwardt, in a speech before the Reichstag, called Jews "predators" and "cholera bacilli" who should be "exterminated" for the good of the German people .	In his best-selling 1912 book Wenn ich der Kaiser wär (If I were the Kaiser), Heinrich Class, the leader of one of the more powerful völkisch groups, the Alldeutscher Verband, urged that all German Jews be stripped of their German citizenship and be reduced to Fremdenrecht (alien status) .
noLabel	The global market for console games has seen an average of 6.9 percent compound annual growth rate and is expected to become a $34.7 billion market in 2012.Online game sales are expected to grow at a larger rate of 16.9 percent, escalating from $6.6 billion in 2008 to $14.4 billion by 2012.	The largest channel for growth, however, is in mobile gaming with a growth rate of 19 percent; estimated to grow from $5.6 billion in 2008 to $13.5 billion in four years .
noLabel	Jefferson's concept of "separation of church and state" first became a part of Establishment Clause jurisprudence in Reynolds v. U.S., 98 U.S. 145 (1878) .	In that case, the court examined the history of religious liberty in the US, determining that while the constitution guarantees religious freedom, "The word 'religion' is not defined in the Constitution.
noLabel	Although administration of leptin may be effective in a small subset of obese individuals who are leptin deficient, most obese individuals are thought to be leptin resistant and have been found to have high levels of leptin .	This resistance is thought to explain in part why administration of leptin has not been shown to be effective in suppressing appetite in most obese people . 
noLabel	Then, Term 4 would start, and after it there is the December holidays, which would be either five or six weeks long, depending on whether the first week of the year was counted as a school week.	Students are also given days off on public holidays, as well as Children's Day, Youth's Day, Teacher's Day and the day after National Day.
noLabel	In a word, civilization has necessarily somewhat darkened the child’s life, rather than drawing him spontaneously to instruction as Tolstoy claimed.	If, further, one reflects that at this point in history violence was common, that it did not seem to affront anyone’s conscience, and that it alone had the necessary efficacy for influencing rougher natures, then one can easily explain how the beginnings of culture were signaled by the appearance of corporeal punishment. 
noLabel	The attack was widely reported to have been conducted by Israeli aircraft, while the Israeli government hinted that it was behind the attack .	Naval commandos from the elite Shayetet 13 unit were reportedly involved in the operation, which included an attack on an Iranian arms ship docking in Port Sudan .
noLabel	Influenced by this report, the UK Government issued PPG 3 Planning Policy Guidance on Housing which introduced a 60% brownfield target, a minimum net residential density guideline of 30 dwellings per hectare, a sequential hierarchy beginning with urban brownfield land, maximum parking guidelines replacing the previous minima, and a policy of intensification around public transport nodes.	Over the succeeding years, these targets were substantially exceeded, with the brownfield proportion reaching 80% by 2009, and average densities 43 dwellings per hectare .
noLabel	Critics dispute the claim that in practice free markets create perfect competition, or even increase market competition over the long run.	Whether the marketplace should be or is free is disputed; many assert that government intervention is necessary to remedy market failure that is held to be an inevitable result of absolute adherence to free market principles.
noLabel	" James's reading of The True Law of Free Monarchies allowed that "..a good king will frame all his actions to be according to the law, yet is he not bound thereto but of his good will.." James also had printed his Defense of the Right of Kings in the face of English theories of inalienable popular and clerical rights.	The divine right of kings, or divine-right theory of kingship, is a political and religious doctrine of royal and political legitimacy.
noLabel	The study also found the city's restaurants and bars prospered despite the smoke-free law, with increases in jobs, liquor licenses, and business tax payments.	The President of the New York nightlife association remarked that the study was not wholly representative, as by not differentiating between restaurants and nightclubs, the reform may have caused businesses like nightclubs and bars to suffer instead .
noLabel	According to a March 2009 Industry Survey of and by the National Association of Business Economists, 70.6% of their economists who had reviewed the fiscal stimulus enacted in February 2009 projected it would have modest to strong impact in shortening the recession, with 29.4% anticipating little or no impact.	The aspects of the stimulus expected by the NABE to have the greatest effectiveness were physical infrastructure, unemployment benefits expansion, and personal tax-rate cuts . 
noLabel	The largest difference between the House bill and its Senate counterpart was that the total amount of subsidies received by an individual farmer was capped by the Senate.	Voicing concerns that "millionaire farmers" were reaping all the benefits of the farm bill legislation, a coalition of farm-state Senators pushed for these limits. 
noLabel	Many econometric studies in recent years have supported the view that development aid has no effect on the speed with which countries develop.	Negative side effects of aid can include an unbalanced appreciation of the recipient's currency (known as Dutch Disease), increasing corruption, and adverse political effects such as postponements of necessary economic and democratic reforms . 
noLabel	In the 16th&nbsp;century, the term "concussion" came into use, and symptoms such as confusion, lethargy, and memory problems were described .	The 16th&nbsp;century physician Ambroise Paré used the term commotio cerebri, as well as "shaking of the brain", "commotion", and "concussion" . 
noLabel	Then aged eleven or twelve, they start secondary school for a compulsory four years with the final two years being optional.	Pupils sit Standard Grade exams at the age of fifteen/sixteen, sometimes earlier, most often for up to eight subjects including compulsory exams in English, mathematics, a foreign language, a science subject and a social subject; it is now required by the Scottish Parliament to have two hours of physical education a week.
noLabel	Many men who chose this option, become so engrossed in the developmental needs of such countries that they stayed abroad many years longer than the legal requirement.	The disproportionately high percentage of German nationals found in many international aid, conservation, medical and technical assistance organizations active in developing countries may be directly attributable to this trend. 
noLabel	Tax revenues averaged approximately 18% GDP from 1971–2010, with expenditures around 21% GDP, resulting in an average annual deficit of around 3% GDP.	For example, in 2010 revenues were $2.16 trillion and outlays were $3.46 trillion, resulting in a deficit of $1.3 trillion or 9.4% GDP . 
noLabel	In Denmark, Kurt Westergaard, the cartoonist from one of the Jyllands-Posten cartoons of Muhammed, has expressed concerns because his cartoon is used in the film without his permission, a violation of copyright .	The Danish Union of Journalists has said it will file a lawsuit on Westergaard's behalf as he is still in hiding from the death threats against him .
noLabel	This was because physically fit local men needed to both work to earn a wage - limiting the time that they could devote to unpaid sport - and to avoid injuries that might prevent them working in the future.	Certain teams faced with these circumstances wanted to pay so-called 'broken time' money to their players to compensate them for missing paid work due to their playing commitments, but this contravened the amateur policy of the Rugby Football Union (RFU).
noLabel	In the late 1970s and early 1980s, two different groups were establishing the roots of the current open source software movement.	On the east coast, Richard Stallman, formerly of the MIT AI lab, created the GNU project and the Free Software Foundation .
noLabel	This interpretation is particularly argued to apply to recent municipal transactions in the United States, particularly for fixed term, such as the 2008 sale of the proceeds from Chicago parking meters for 75 years.	It is argued that this is motivated by "politicians' desires to borrow money surreptitiously", due to legal restrictions on and political resistance to alternative sources of revenue, viz, raising taxes or issuing debt.
noLabel	Individual: this refers to the frictions and pains experienced by an individual as he or she looks for ways to satisfy his or her needs, i.e.	if the goals of a society become significant to an individual, actually achieving them may become more important than the means adopted.
noLabel	Researchers from The Ohio State University extended summer learning gap research further by conducting a national study of 17,000 kindergarten and first grade children from the Early Childhood Longitudinal Study.	The authors confirmed earlier findings of an unequal starting point, showing that a standard deviation’s advantage in SES predicts a 1.77 month advantage in initial reading skill on the first day of kindergarten .
noLabel	"There is a danger that the holiday pattern of 25,000 schools throughout England could be changed to follow the five-term model already adopted by just six city technology colleges whose success depends on extra resources rather than a different holiday pattern."	Nigel de Gruchy, general secretary of the National Association of Schoolmasters Union of Women Teachers, said: "I don't think five terms would make any difference.
noLabel	Anabolic steroids have been used by men and women in many different kinds of professional sports to attain a competitive edge or to assist in recovery from injury.	These sports include bodybuilding, weightlifting, shot put and other track and field, cycling, baseball, wrestling, mixed martial arts, boxing, football, and cricket.
noLabel	The soils of the eastern and central Amazon as well as the Southeast Asian Rainforest are old and mineral poor whereas the soils of the western Amazon (Ecuador and Peru) and volcanic areas of Costa Rica are young and mineral rich.	Primary productivity or wood production is highest in western Amazon and lowest in eastern Amazon which contains heavily weathered soils classified as oxisols .
noLabel	TransCanada CEO Russ Girling has described the Keystone Pipeline as "routine," noting that TransCanada has been building similar pipelines in North America for half a century and that there are of similar oil pipelines in the United States today.	He also stated that the Keystone Pipeline will include 57&nbsp;improvements above standard requirements demanded by U.S. regulators so far, making it "the safest pipeline ever built.
noLabel	The 1960s saw an emergent boom, in immigration terms, of bogus students who saw study, whether real or not, as a way to get a foot in the door.	A market grew in bogus colleges and forged documents provided by racketeers who would, for a price, provide a complete package comprising travel, documents and illegal work.
noLabel	While leaders of America's two most influential political parties generally favored economic deregulation during the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s, there was less agreement concerning regulations designed to achieve social goals.	Social regulation had assumed growing importance in the years following the Depression and World War II, and again in the 1960s and 1970s.
noLabel	The National-ACT alliance intends to set up charter schools as alternatives to state schools, in some cases taking over the facilities of a state school.	Schools would be operated by private businesses or organisations such as churches and tribal groups, and would be directly accountable for performance to the organizations running them, unlike state schools where they are accountable to the Government.
noLabel	Shooting gallery games are often interchangeable with light gun games, although many could also be played using a regular joypad and an on-screen cursor to signify where the bullets are being aimed.	When these debuted, they were typically played from a first-person perspective, with enemy fire that occurred anywhere on the screen damaging or killing the player.
noLabel	Rivers flow from far within the continent and the Great Lakes—five large, inland lakes along the U.S. border with Canada—provide additional shipping access.	These extensive waterways have helped shape the country's economic growth over the years and helped bind America's 50 individual states together in a single economic unit . 
noLabel	In the past, when a local government built all the streets in a given location, the town could expand without interruption and with a coherent circulation system, because it had condemnation power.	Private developers generally do not have such power (although they can sometimes find local governments willing to help), and often choose to develop on the tracts that happen to be for sale at the time they want to build, rather than pay extra or wait for a more appropriate location.
noLabel	"Homesteading" in Congress, made possible by reelection rates that approached 100% by the end of the 20th century, brought about a popular insurgency known as the "term-limits movement".	The elections of 1990-94 saw the adoption of term limits for state legislatures in almost every state where citizens had the power of the initiative.
noLabel	About 15,000 of the 92,000 documents have not yet been released on WikiLeaks, as the group is currently reviewing the documents to remove some of the sources of the information.	WikiLeaks asked the Pentagon and human-rights groups to help remove names from the documents to reduce the potential harm caused by their release, but did not receive assistance .
noLabel	Many advocates argue that prohibitionist laws criminalise people for suffering from a disease and cause harm, for example by obliging drug addicts to obtain drugs of unknown purity from unreliable criminal sources at high prices, increasing the risk of overdose and death .	Its critics are concerned that tolerating risky or illegal behaviour sends a message to the community that these behaviours are acceptable .
noLabel	Although a noble idea, Summers’ promise to aid low-income students entering college is flawed in the sense that the attempt to push students into higher education needs to occur significantly earlier than high school.	Some studies have shown that early educational intervention in low-income children as early as preschool has yielded phenomenal results in college enrollment and graduation compared to their non-intervention peers .
noLabel	This scientific team evaluated whether Finnish long-term data are compatible with the hypothesis that the decrease in the ratio of male to female births in industrial countries is caused by environmental factors.	They analyzed the sex ratio of births from the files of Statistics Finland and all live births in Finland from 1751 to 1997.
noLabel	Frantic opposition forced the GCTU to collapse after a few months, but the ideals of the movement lingered for a time.	After Chartism failed, British unions began to organize only skilled workers, and began to limit their goals in tacit support of the existing organization of industry . 
noLabel	Sparta achieved a series of land victories, but many of her ships were destroyed at the battle of Cnidus by a Greek-Phoenician mercenary fleet that Persia had provided to Athens.	The event severely damaged Sparta's naval power but did not end its aspirations of invading further into Persia, until Conon the Athenian ravaged the Spartan coastline and provoked the old Spartan fear of a helot revolt . 
noLabel	When the American Alsos Mission evacuated Hechingen and Haigerloch, near the end of World War II, French armed forces occupied Hechingen.	Bopp did not get along with them and described the initial French policy objectives towards the KWIP as exploitation, forced evacuation to France, and seizure of documents and equipment.
noLabel	In Greece, thousands of protesters marched on the Israeli Embassy in Athens, sparking clashes with police, the deployment of tear gas, five arrests and many injuries .	Tear gas was also used in Paris to disperse the thousands of people who waved Palestinian and Turkish flags beside the Israeli Embassy .
noLabel	The Englishwoman Mary Ward founded the Institute of the Blessed Virgin Mary (Loreto Sisters) in 1609, and the order has established schools throughout the world.	Irishwoman Catherine McAuley founded the Sisters of Mercy in Dublin in 1831, at a time where access to education had been the preserve of Ireland's Protestant Ascendency.
noLabel	In the ensuing elections the Labour opposition could only win their safe seats, with the small Conservative leads in the marginal wards being enough for that party to win these wards, and therefore maintain their majority position and control of the council.	In her defence, Porter raised the history of the provision of public housing in London and Herbert Morrison's supposed boast to "..build the Conservatives out of London" by building new public housing in marginal Conservative seats . 
noLabel	Criticism of historical Israeli government policies relate to issues with ongoing consequences such as the refusal to allow post-war Palestinian refugees to return to their homes, and the invasion, occupation and annexation of neighbouring territories and the construction of settlements therein.	Another source of criticism is the friction generated by the conversion issue between Israel's orthodox rabbinate and non-orthodox segments of the Jewish diaspora.
noLabel	King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy had switched sides during the war in favour of the western allies, but a referendum in 1946 ended the short reign of his son King Umberto II and the Italian monarchy ceased to exist.	A unique result of the war was that Emperor Hirohito of Japan, who had held a debated but important role in Japan's warfare against the Allied powers, was reduced in stature from a divine monarch to a figurehead by the occupying United States, instead of losing his throne altogether. 
noLabel	A two-state solution, building our embassy, also, in Jerusalem, those things that we look forward to being able to accomplish, with this peace-seeking nation, and they have a track record of being able to forge these peace agreements."	Regarding Joe Biden's support for Israel, Palin stated that "I'm so encouraged to know that we both love Israel, and I think that is a good thing to get to agree on, Senator Biden.
noLabel	Bloomfield and Nossal (2007) suggest that the new political alignment has reshaped Canadian foreign policy, especially in improving relations with the United States, taking a harder line on the Middle East conflicts, and backing away from the Kyoto Protocol on global warming .	In terms of domestic policy, Doern and Stoney (2011) have explored how the realignment has reshaped spending policies, especially stimulus spending on infrastructure that has kept Canada immune from the economic recession battering the U.S. and the EU . 
noLabel	In a 2002 editorial in the Columbia Spectator, conservative commentator Jaime Sneider contended that thetruth.com attempts "to create the illusion of a racist conspiracy perpetrated by 'Big Tobacco'."	Sneider notes that some truth commercials contain the claim that "Tobacco gives black males 50% more lung cancer than white males."
noLabel	As soon as a work is "fixed", that is, written or recorded on some physical medium, its author is automatically entitled to all copyrights in the work, and to any derivative works unless and until the author explicitly disclaims them, or until the copyright expires.	The Berne Convention also resulted in foreign authors being treated equivalently to domestic authors, in any country signed onto the Convention.
noLabel	Before the operation, Fegelein had been ordered to shoot all adult Jews while driving the women and children into the marshes.	After the operation, General Max von Schenckendorff, who commanded the rear areas of Army Group Centre ordered on August 10, 1941 that all Wehrmacht security divisions when on anti-partisan duty to emulate Fegelein's example, and organized in Mogilev between September 24–26, 1941 a joint SS-Wehrmacht seminar on how best to murder Jews .
noLabel	It is also eating well, self-medicating, practicing good hygiene and avoiding health hazards such as smoking and drinking to prevent ill health.	Self care is also taking care of minor ailments, long term conditions, or one’s own health after discharge from secondary and tertiary health care. 
noLabel	Many Christians teach that sexual intercourse is meant to take place within the context of marriage, and that sexual abstinence is the norm outside of that.	But for married couples, Paul of Tarsus wrote that they should not deprive each other, except for a short time for devotion to prayer . 
noLabel	In the present-day enactments of various "austerity budgets", however, a prior history of dictatorship is not necessarily a precondition for the implementation of such a budget by a given government.	Examples of countries implementing severe austerity measures without a history of what the world's mainstream media would typically consider a 'dictatorship', include the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the latter of which witnessed its housing market completely (rather than partially as elsewhere) collapse, and the Republic eventually appealing for a massive bailout from the International Monetary Fund, "in exchange for" implementation of a very severe austerity programme.
noLabel	The word monarch () comes from the Greek monàrches, μονάρχης (from mònos, μόνος, "one/singular," and àrchon, ἄρχων, "leader/ruler/chief") which referred to a single, at least nominally absolute ruler.	In current usage the word monarchy generally refers to a traditional system of hereditary rule, as elective monarchies are rare in the modern period.
noLabel	The use of bank-side reservoirs also allows a water abstraction to be closed down for extended period at times when the river is unacceptably polluted or when flow conditions are very low due to drought.	The London water supply system is one example of the use of bank-side storage for all the water taken from the River Thames and River Lee with many large reservoirs such as Queen Mary Reservoir visible along the approach to London Heathrow Airport .
noLabel	According to Wired Magazine, "WikiLeaks may have just bolstered one of the Bush administration’s most controversial claims about the Iraq war: that Iran supplied many of the Iraq insurgency’s deadliest weapons and worked hand-in-glove with some of its most lethal militias.	The documents indicate that Iran was a major combatant in the Iraq war, as its elite Quds Force trained Iraqi Shiite insurgents and imported deadly weapons like the shape-charged explosively formed penetrator bombs into Iraq for use against civilians, Sunni militants and U.S.
noLabel	A group of researchers from Turin, Italy found that smoking restrictions had significantly reduced heart attacks in the city, and attributed most of the reduction to decreased second-hand smoke exposure .	A comprehensive smoking ban in New York was found to have prevented 3,813 hospital admissions for heart attacks in 2004, and to have saved $56&nbsp;million in health-care costs for the year . 
noLabel	Facing local revolts and foreign invasions in both the East and West of the country, the most urgent government business was the war.	On 17 August, the Convention voted for general conscription, the levée en masse, which mobilized all citizens to serve as soldiers or suppliers in the war effort. 
noLabel	Prior to fertilization with IVF, the fertilized eggs can be genetically biopsied with preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) to increase fertilization success .	Once an embryo grows to a 6-8 cell size, a small laser incision in the egg membrane (zona pellucida) allows safe removal of one of the cells .
noLabel	As societies become increasingly reliant on energy-dense, big-portions, and fast-food meals, the association between fast-food consumption and obesity becomes more concerning .	In the United States consumption of fast-food meals tripled and food energy intake from these meals quadrupled between 1977 and 1995 . 
noLabel	As a form of individualized or surgical warfare, the method of targeted killing requires a "microscopic" interpretation of the law regulating the conduct of hostilities which leads nuanced results reflecting the fundamental principles underlying international humanitarian law.	Any targeted killing not directed against a legitimate military target remains subject to the law enforcement paradigm, which imposes extensive restraints on the practice and even under the paradigm of hostilities, no person can be lawfully liquidated without further considerations .
noLabel	If so many voters give their first preferences to the "weak" candidate that it ends up winning the first round, it is highly likely they will gain enough campaign momentum to have a strong chance of winning the runoff, too, and with it, the election.	At the very least, their opponent would have to start taking the so-called "weak" candidate seriously, particularly if the runoff follows quickly after the first round. 
noLabel	weapons effects tests are designed to gain information about the effects of the weapons on structures, equipment, organisms and the environment.	They are mainly used to assess and improve survivability to nuclear explosions in civilian and military contexts, tailor weapons to their targets, and develop the tactics of nuclear warfare. 
noLabel	It noted that the security apparatuses participated in terror activity and that the Hamas leadership presented these organizations as at the forefront of the jihad for liberating all of Palestine .	The UN fact finding mission established that approximately 240 Gaza policemen were killed by Israeli forces during the course of the conflict constituting over one sixth of the total Palestinian casualties . 
noLabel	Copeland Lowery on their work: "Like many other firms, we work on routine bread-and-butter, run-of-the-mill appropriations that benefit cities and towns and hospitals and schools across the country.	Our work is consistent with the laws, rules and regulations that govern Capitol Hill lobbying and is similar to work done every day, every month and every year by many in Washington."
noLabel	After describing the links between the Islamic charity that organized the flotilla and terrorist groups, the Journal states "No wonder that Israel was not prepared to let this flotilla break its blockade of Gaza.. Israel is entirely within its rights to prevent Hamas from linking with groups suspected of supplying arms and money to terrorists.	Israel had also gone out of its way to give Turkey fair warning.." The Journal goes on to note that Turkish foreign policy under Erdogan has become progressively radical and out of line with the U.S . 
noLabel	Current average cost pricing, where customers pay the same price per unit of power regardless of the true cost of their service, subsidizes sprawl development.	With electricity deregulation, some states now charge customers/developers fees for extending distribution to new locations rather than rolling such costs into utility rates . 
noLabel	The book was based in part on original research funded by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, U.S. Department of Justice to the Center for Mental Health and Media .	The book's title is a play on the Grand Theft Auto series, a video game series that has attracted a great deal of controversy. 
noLabel	Robin Churchill, international law professor at the University of Dundee in Scotland, said there was no legal basis for boarding the ships as they were in international waters .	A group of Israeli lawyers petitioned the Supreme Court of Israel charging that Israel had violated the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea by capturing the boats in international waters, but a Supreme Court ruling signed by Justice Dorit Beinish rejected those suits outright . 
noLabel	Illegal workers in this model find employment by accepting lower wages than native-born workers, sometimes below the minimum wage and "off-the-books".	Economist George Borjas supports aspects of this model, calculating that real wages of US workers without a high school degree declined by 9% from 1980–2000 due to competition from illegal immigrant workers . 
noLabel	Other issues involve religious participation in global health care services and collaboration with secular organizations such as UNAIDS and the World Health Organization.	Catholic organisations like Caritas already perform extensive social and educational work relating to AIDS, as for example the provision of services to 14,000 AIDS orphans in Namibia .
noLabel	If the number of cigarettes sold by an OPM in a given year is less than the number it sold in 1997, the Volume Adjustment allows that OPM to reduce its payment to the settling states.	In other words, a reduction in the amount of cigarettes sold by the OPMs results in the settling states receiving less money. 
noLabel	The Prince of Monaco has simpler powers but can not hire or dismiss any elective member or government employee from his or her post, but he can elect the minister of state, government council and judges.	Both Albert II and Hans-Adam II have quite a bit of political power, but they also own huge tracts of land and are shareholders in many companies. 
noLabel	Living a privileged, parallel existence, Burma's military forces appear virtually a "state within a state", free from the economic insecurity that afflicts the rest of the country.	Many of the high ranking army generals have become immensely rich; as witnessed in the  of the wedding of senior general Than Shwe's daughter, who is shown wearing diamonds worth many millions of dollars . 
noLabel	" The report claims that if the achievement gap between black and Latino performance and white student performance had been narrowed, GDP in 2008 would have been $310 billion to $525 billion higher (2–4 percent).	If the gap between low-income students and their peers had been narrowed, GDP in the same year would have been $400 billion to $670 billion higher (3–5 percent).
noLabel	Having a higher peak capacity allows a dam's operators to sell more of the annual output of electricity during the hours of highest electricity demand (and thus the highest spot price).	In practical terms, uprating a dam allows it to balance a larger amount of intermittent energy sources on the grid such as wind farms and solar power plants, and to compensate for unscheduled shutdowns of baseload power plants, or brief surges in demand for electricity.
noLabel	On February 17, 2009, Obama signed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, a $787&nbsp;billion economic stimulus package aimed at helping the economy recover from the deepening worldwide recession .	The act includes increased federal spending for health care, infrastructure, education, various tax breaks and incentives, and direct assistance to individuals, which is being distributed over the course of several years. 
noLabel	Second strike capability indicated that a nation could uphold a promise to respond to a nuclear attack with enough force to make such a first attack highly undesirable.	According to McNamara, the arms race was in part an attempt to make sure that no nation gained first strike capability. 
noLabel	The Human Rights Watch supported this claim as well, stating that of blacks convicted of drug crimes 71% are incarcerated, compared with 63% of convicted whites .	US laws have a much higher penalty for possession and distribution of crack coccaine, a frequently used drug among African Americans and this affects the Black community as well.
noLabel	Dr. Strangelove explored "what might happen within the Pentagon .. if some maniac Air Force general should suddenly order a nuclear attack on the Soviet Union".	One reviewer called the movie "one of the cleverest and most incisive satiric thrusts at the awkwardness and folly of the military that has ever been on the screen" . 
noLabel	If governments around the world were to select open source rather than closed source software, they could significantly change the balance of the industry and make dramatic cost and efficiency savings.	This has begun to happen, with ambitious long term projects to switch to open source software in BRIC nations (Brazil, Russia, India, China).
noLabel	When Clay beat Liston, he was the youngest boxer (age 22) ever to take the title from a reigning heavyweight champion, a mark that stood until Mike Tyson won the title (age 20) from Trevor Berbick on November 22, 1986.	At the time, Floyd Patterson (dethroned by Liston) had been the youngest heavyweight champ ever (age 21), but he won the title during an elimination tournament following Rocky Marciano's retirement by defeating Archie Moore, the light-heavyweight champion at the time. 
noLabel	Many of these bills were modeled on legislation drafted by the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) ΓÇô a conservative advocacy group whose founder explained: 'Our leverage in the elections quite candidly goes up as the voting populace goes down.	'"It is interesting that the right wing, long an opponent of any type of national identification card, is very keen to impose photo identification requirements at the state level.
noLabel	Despite invasions in its recent history it has succeeded in organically assimilating incoming influences, blunting their wills for imperialistic hegemony and maintaining its strong roots and culture.	These invasions however brought their own racial mixing between diverse populations and South Asia is considered an exemplary "melting pot" (and not a "salad bowl") by many geneticists for exactly this reason.However, South Asian society has never been completely free of ethnic strife and exploitation, and some groups have chosen to remain separate from mainstream social life.
noLabel	A drug, broadly speaking, is any substance that, when absorbed into the body of a living organism, alters normal bodily function .	There is no single, precise definition, as there are different meanings in drug control law, government regulations, medicine, and colloquial usage . 
noLabel	The Troika behind the second bailout package defined three requirements for Greece to comply with in order to receive the money.	The first requirement was to finalize an agreement whereby all private holders of governmental bonds would accept a 50% haircut with yields reduced to 3.5%, thus facilitating a €100bn debt reduction for Greece.
noLabel	They were sometimes given a small piece of soap and a towel so as to avoid panic, and were told to remember where they had put their belongings for the same reason.	When they asked for water because they were thirsty after the long journey in the cattle trains, they were told to hurry up, because coffee was waiting for them in the camp, and it was getting cold . 
noLabel	Whether one considers such aid helpful may depend on whether one agrees with the agenda being pursued by the donor nation in a particular case.	During the conflict between communism and capitalism in the twentieth century, the champions of those ideologies, the Soviet Union and the United States, each used aid to influence the internal politics of other nations, and to support their weaker allies.
noLabel	Shorter-range weapons, including small "tactical" weapons, were fielded in Europe as well, including nuclear artillery and man-portable Special Atomic Demolition Munition.	The development of submarine launched ballistic missile (SLBM) systems allowed for hidden nuclear submarines to covertly launch missiles at distant targets as well, making it virtually impossible for the Soviet Union to successfully launch a first strike attack against the United States which would not guarantee a deadly response. 
noLabel	Rich Levin, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, said, We would have liked more drug testing, but we were negotiating with the union.	But more than a dozen players interviewed over the last month questioned whether the union's resistance to broader drug testing really reflected the views of the majority of players.
noLabel	In order to make anal sex safer, the couple must ensure that the anal area is clean and the bowel empty and the partner on whom anal penetration occurs should be able to relax.	Regardless of whether anal penetration occurs by using a finger or the penis, the condom is the best barrier method to prevent transmission of STI. 
noLabel	The form of conflict theory which emphasizes the role of economics, being heavily influenced by the work of Karl Marx and sometimes referred to as Marxist criminology, views crime as a natural response to the inequality arising from the competition inherent in capitalist society .	Sociologists and criminologists emphasizing this aspect of social conflict argue that, in a competitive society in which there is an inequality in the distribution of goods, those groups with limited or restricted access to goods will be more likely to turn to crime.
noLabel	They often had trouble trying to communicate with speakers of limited English proficiency, let alone people of vastly different value systems and normative behaviors from that of Anglo-European culture.	The purpose of training educators and others in the area of cultural competence is to provide new teachers the background and skills to work effectively with children of all backgrounds and social classes. 
noLabel	During the Great depression Adolf Hitler condemned his earlier smoking habit as a waste of money, and later with stronger assertions.	This movement was further strengthened with Nazi reproductive policy as women who smoked were viewed as unsuitable to be wives and mothers in a German family . 
noLabel	If she had to relearn all aspects of driving, her adjustment process would be much harder and take much more time.	And as Thomas Sowell (1994) demonstrates, typically the most successful newcomers are ones who bring some new and different skills such as violin making, stone cutting, hard rock mining, and the like to their adopted communities.
noLabel	In contrast, researchers, including Terry Bristol, have found teenagers to be generally unaffected by these advertisements due to the idea that repeat exposure can create an immunity to images and messages in advertisements .	Moreover, some researchers, such as Paul Humphreys, have concluded that exposure to such advertisements can actually create higher self-esteem in teenagers .
noLabel	Rabbi Yehuda Levin is a prominent pro-life advocate within Judaism that has often stood by pro-life advocates in other religions, notably the Roman Catholic Church.	His views largely echo those of rabbi Moshe Feinstein, who was a leading opponent of abortion in the Orthodox Jewish tradition.
noLabel	Explosives used in World War I caused many blast injuries; the large number of TBIs that resulted allowed researchers to learn about localization of brain functions .	Blast-related injuries are now common problems in returning veterans from Iraq & Afghanistan; research shows that the symptoms of such TBIs are largely the same as those of TBIs involving a physical blow to the head . 
noLabel	Whether tobacco, cannabis, opium or herbs, some form of receptacle is required along with a source of fire to light the mixture.	The most common today is by far the cigarette, consisting of a tightly rolled tube of paper, which is usually manufactured industrially or rolled from loose tobacco, rolling papers which can include a filter.
noLabel	It is not uncommon for Western RPGs to be called "crap games" by players in Japan, where the vast majority of console role-playing video games originate, and where Western RPGs remain largely unknown .	The developer Motomu Toriyama also criticized Western RPGs, stating that they "dump you in a big open world, and let you do whatever you like [which makes it] difficult to tell a compelling story.
noLabel	Hair testing, however, is a different matter, particularly with passive exposure to crack/cocaine, which can deposit onto hair and be readily incorporated into it .	Though for cannabis, typically only metabolites (produced by the body and thus not found in smoke) are tested rather than THC, so failure is unlikely to result from non-extreme passive exposure .
noLabel	The scale of humanitarian aid to the poor and unstable regions of the world grows, but it is highly vulnerable to corruption, with food aid, construction and other highly valued assistance as the most at risk .	Food aid can be directly and physically diverted from its intended destination, or indirectly through the manipulation of assessments, targeting, registration and distributions to favour certain groups or individuals .
noLabel	Holocaust denial is relatively new to the Middle East, as Kenneth Jacobson, assistant national director of the Anti-Defamation League, said in an interview with Haaretz: "Adopting the theories of Holocaust denial of Western scholars is a relatively new phenomenon in the Muslim world.	The accepted attitude had been to say that whereas it was true the Holocaust had taken place, the Palestinians should not have to pay the price.
noLabel	The unit study approach incorporates several subjects, such as art, history, math, science, geography and other curriculum subjects, around the context of one topical theme, like water, animals, American slavery, or ancient Rome .	For example, a unit study of Native Americans could combine age-appropriate lessons in: social studies, how different tribes lived prior to colonization vs. today; art, making patterns or artifacts influenced by Native American decorative crafts; history (of Native Americans in the U.S.); reading from a special reading list; and the science of plants used by Native Americans. 
noLabel	After Iran sent a formal strong objection to the Czech government against the publication of the cartoons in MF DNES and Hospodářské noviny, the newspapers insisted that it was necessary for them to publish the pictures so that the readers get the full information.	The Czech foreign minister Cyril Svoboda called the Muslim reaction "exaggerated" and advocated a united European stand on the issue .
noLabel	In many countries, neoliberal reforms of government have included expanding the outsourcing of government tasks and functions to private businesses with the aim of improving efficiency and effectiveness in government administration.	However, among the criticisms of these reforms is the claim that the pervasive use of "Commercial-in-confidence" (or secrecy) clauses in contracts between government and private providers further limits public accountability of governments and prevents proper public scrutiny of the performance and probity of the private companies.
noLabel	Douglas MacArthur, an American general, was fired by President Harry Truman, partially because he persistently requested permission to use his own discretion in deciding whether to use atomic weapons on the People's Republic of China in 1951 during the Korean War .	Mao Zedong, China's communist leader, gave the impression that he would welcome a nuclear war with the capitalists because it would annihilate their imperialist system .
noLabel	For Locke, this created a natural right in the liberty of conscience, which he argued must therefore remain protected from any government authority.	These views on religious tolerance and the importance of individual conscience, along with his social contract, became particularly influential in the American colonies and the drafting of the United States Constitution . 
noLabel	There is little evidence to support the common belief that teenage mothers become pregnant to get benefits, welfare, and council housing.	Most knew little about housing or financial aid before they got pregnant and what they thought they knew often turned out to be wrong .
noLabel	After several incidents in Pakistan in which terrorists attacked three of its military nuclear facilities it became clear that there emerged a serious danger that they would gain access to the country’s nuclear arsenal, according to a journal published by the US Military Academy at West Point .	In January 2010 it was revealed that the US army was training a specialised unit "to seal off and snatch back" Pakistani nuclear weapons in the event that militants would obtain a nuclear device or materials that could make one.
noLabel	At the turn of the century, there were few career choices for women in business; however, advertising was one of the few.	Since women were responsible for most of the purchasing done in their household, advertisers and agencies recognized the value of women's insight during the creative process.
noLabel	Charles Darwin himself opposed the idea of rigid racial differences in The Descent of Man (1871) in which he argued that humans were all of one species, sharing common descent.	He recognised racial differences as varieties of humanity, and emphasised the close similarities between people of all races in mental faculties, tastes, dispositions and habits, while still contrasting the culture of the "lowest savages" with European civilization . 
noLabel	One study found that the actual number of firms which do lobbying regularly is fewer than 300, and that the percent of firms engaged in lobbying was 10% from 1998&ndash;2006, and that they were "mainly large, rich firms getting in on the fun.	" These firms hired lobbyists year after year, and there was not much evidence of other large firms taking much interest in lobbying .
noLabel	CREW has published seven annual reports since 2005 of the politicians that CREW identifies as the most corrupt members of Congress.	The 2005 report included 11 Republicans and 2 Democrats; the 2006 report included 17 Republicans and 3 Democrats; the 2007 report included 18 Republicans and 4 Democrats;; the 2008 report included 17 Republicans and 7 Democrats; the 2009 report included 7 Republicans and 8 Democrats; the 2010 report included 16 Republicans and 10 Democrats; the 2011 report included 10 Republicans and 4 Democrats .
noLabel	Following his resignation after the 2010 South Australian elections there appears to be no likelihood of a future veto in the face of public opinion supporting the new classification .	Although recently Australian video game show Good Game announced that a meeting of the Attorneys-General in March 2008 resulted in a decision that the Australian public would be consulted before a final decision on the status of a R18+ rating for video games would be made . 
noLabel	In 2010, Connecticut won the Big East with a record of 8-4 and was awarded an automatic bid to the Fiesta Bowl despite not being ranked in the top 25 of the BCS standings .	As a result, the Mountain West Conference campaigned to receive an automatic bid while there have been calls for the Big East to lose its AQ status .
noLabel	Government agencies regulate the standards of service in many industries, such as airlines and broadcasting, as well as financing a wide range of programs.	In addition, the government regulates the flow of capital and uses financial tools such as the interest rate to control factors such as inflation and unemployment .
noLabel	Upon reaching Iraqi airspace the squadron split up, with two of the F-15s forming close escort to the F-16 squadron, and the remaining F-15s dispersing into Iraqi airspace as a diversion and ready back-up.	The attack squadron descended to 30 m over the Iraqi desert, attempting to fly under the radar of the Iraqi defences . 
noLabel	Mass species extinctions from reduced habitat in tropical forests due to slash-and-burn techniques that sometimes are practiced by shifting cultivators, especially in countries with rapidly expanding rural populations; present extinction rates may be as high as 140,000 species lost per year .	As of February 2011, the IUCN Red List lists a total of 801 animal species having gone extinct during recorded human history .
noLabel	Vrba had an eidetic memory and had worked on the Judenrampe, where Jews disembarked from the trains to be "selected" either for the gas chamber or slave labor.	The level of detail with which he described the transports allowed Slovakian officials to compare his account with their own deportation records, and the corroboration convinced the Allies to take the report seriously . 
noLabel	In the lead-up to the Beijing Olympics, the government allegedly issued guidelines to the local media for reporting during the Games: political issues not directly related to the games were to be downplayed: topics such as Pro-Tibetan independence and East Turkestan movements and food safety issues such as "cancer-causing mineral water" were not to be reported on .	As the 2008 Chinese milk scandal broke in September 2008, some western media evoked suspicions that China's desire for a perfect games may have been a factor contributing towards the delayed recall of contaminated infant formula, which has given more than 50,000 babies kidney stones and killed at least 4 infants although the Central government denied this . 
noLabel	At the time of the bill, there was public debate as to the difference in potency and effect of powder cocaine, generally used by whites, and crack cocaine, generally used by blacks, with many believing that “crack” was substantially more powerful and addictive.	Crack and powder cocaine are pharmaceutically equal, although crack has been dehydrated into rock form to allow for a shorter, more intense high using less of the drug.
noLabel	If the out-fighter can avoid those power punches, he can often wear the brawler down with fast jabs, tiring the slugger out.	If he is successful enough, he may even apply extra pressure in the later rounds in an attempt to achieve a knockout. 
noLabel	The revised bill "Makes the Bank's Board of Directors responsible for monitoring and overseeing energy, environmental, telecommunications, and transportation infrastructure projects.	Authorizes the Board to: (1) issue public benefit bonds and provide direct subsidies to infrastructure projects; (2) borrow on the global capital market and lend to entities and commercial banks for funding infrastructure projects; and (3) purchase, pool, and sell infrastructure-related loans and securities on such market.
noLabel	Generally speaking, energy storage is economical when the marginal cost of electricity varies more than the costs of storing and retrieving the energy plus the price of energy lost in the process.	For instance, assume a pumped-storage reservoir can pump to its upper reservoir water equivalent to 1,200 MW·h during the night, for $15 per MW·h, at a total cost of $18,000.
noLabel	But more than half of the respondents between the ages of 18 and 34 said they would be bothered only a little or not at all.	Interviews with a dozen fans before the Eagles-Giants game Sunday indicated more concern about the revolving door of free agency, astronomical salaries, criminal behavior by athletes and the use of marijuana and cocaine than about the use of steroids.
noLabel	However, the "original source" must also be the first to file a federal civil complaint for recovery of the federal funds fraudulently obtained, and must avoid publicizing the claim of fraud until the US Justice Department decides whether to prosecute the claim itself.	Such qui tam lawsuits must be filed under seal, using special procedures to keep the claim from becoming public until the federal government makes its decision on direct prosecution. 
noLabel	He criticized monopolies, tariffs, duties, and other state enforced restrictions of his time and believed that the market is the most fair and efficient arbitrator of resources.	This view was shared by David Ricardo, second most important of the classical political economists and one of the most influential economists of modern times . 
noLabel	Congress has used this method to deal with an encroaching debt ceiling in previous years, as the federal borrowing limit was raised in 2002 and 2003 .	As of October 4, 2008, the "Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008" raised the current debt ceiling to US$ 11.3&nbsp;trillion . 
noLabel	Markets for second-generation technologies have been strong and growing over the past decade, and these technologies have gone from being a passion for the dedicated few to a major economic sector in countries such as Germany, Spain, the United States, and Japan.	Many large industrial companies and financial institutions are involved and the challenge is to broaden the market base for continued growth worldwide .
noLabel	In November 2011, an IEA report entitled Deploying Renewables 2011 said "subsidies in green energy technologies that were not yet competitive are justified in order to give an incentive to investing into technologies with clear environmental and energy security benefits".	The IEA's report disagreed with claims that renewable energy technologies are only viable through costly subsidies and not able to produce energy reliably to meet demand .
noLabel	In the United States, the term majority refers to a group that is larger in population size and controls economic, political, and social resources.	Given the shift of people of color growing in size that trends indicate will make them a majority, some argue that Caucasian-Americans should no longer be considered the majority. 
noLabel	Physically demanding work decreased from 60% (1972) to 38% (2002) in men and from 47% (1972) to 25% (2002) in women.	Daily commuting activity decreased from 30% (1972) to 10% (2002) in men and from 34% (1972) to 22% (2002) in women .
noLabel	Prior to the 2010 European sovereign debt crisis, in many situations, austerity programs were implemented by countries that were previously under dictatorial regimes (e.g., Portugal, Greece, Spain), leading to criticism that the citizens are forced to repay the debts of their oppressors .	In Greece, for example, the current austerity measures are popularly viewed as a combination of leftover policies of the 1967-1974 military dictatorship in that country on the one hand, and the "betrayal" of socialist principles by the current parliamentary-majority Panhellenic Socialist Movement on the other hand, due to that party's wholesale enactment of extremely severe austerity measures in the country, which most everyday Greeks conceive of as intensely right-wing in nature, at least when compared to the party's officially-stated core beliefs. 
noLabel	The information for the Panel's work came primarily through its interactions with the Points of Contact designated by Israel and Turkey.	" In a statement, Israel's prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, said the country had nothing to hide and that it was in its interest that the truth of the events come to light throughout the world . 
noLabel	In his 1983 book, Popular Opinion and Political Dissent in the Third Reich, Ian Kershaw examined the Alltagsgeschichte (history of everyday life) in Bavaria during the Nazi period .	Describing the attitudes of most Bavarians, Kershaw argued that the most common viewpoint was indifference towards what was happening to the Jews .
noLabel	Indicator species are monitored in an effort to capture environmental degradation through pollution or some other link to proximate human activities .	Monitoring an indicator species is a measure to determine if there is a significant environmental impact that can serve to advise or modify practice, such as through different forestsilviculture treatments and management scenarios, or to measure the degree of harm that a pesticide may impart on the health of an ecosystem. 
noLabel	Reporters Without Borders’ primary means of direct action are appeals to government authorities through letters or petitions, as well as frequent press releases.	Also, it has launched PR campaigns with the pro bono assistance of advertising firms to undermine the image of countries that it considers enemies of freedom of expression, and discourage political support by the international community . 
noLabel	The Rigveda says Ekam Sath Viprah Bahudha Vadanti which translates to "The truth is One, but sages call it by different Names" .	Consistent with this tradition, India chose to be a secular country even though it was created after partitioning on religious lines.
noLabel	In the realm of advertising agencies, continued industry diversification has seen observers note that “big global clients don't need big global agencies any more” .	This is reflected by the growth of non-traditional agencies in various global markets, such as Canadian business TAXI and SMART in Australia and has been referred to as "a revolution in the ad world" .
noLabel	For an example of faith, Dawkins takes the infallible doctrine of the Assumption, which Pope Pius XII declared in 1950 by relying upon tradition.	He contrasts this with the scientific method, which he describes as a system whereby working assumptions may be falsified by recourse to reason and evidence.
noLabel	Catholic priest Diego de Landa almost single handedly destroyed all knowledge of the Mayan hieroglyphs, with the desire to wipe out the Mayan religion.	During the English civil war, Parliamentarian soldiers destroyed two of the Eleanor Crosses, one at Cheapside in London and another in Stony Stratford in Buckinghamshire, as they were viewed to be relics of the Catholic faith to which, as Puritans, they were opposed. 
noLabel	It has been the opinion of many political leaders that efforts should be made to reach a common ground between diverse ethnic and religious groups based on the tolerance, understanding, and respect of the fundamental set of values and beliefs of each group.	In this way, and by the attempt to quell "extremism", a comprehensive coalition can be established to work toward a peaceful coexistence between diverse groups around the world, and thereby support international stability.
noLabel	An official document of the Russian Orthodox Church states that while abortifacient methods of contraception are completely unacceptable, other methods can be used with spiritual counsel, taking into account "the concrete living conditions of the couple, their age, health, degree of spiritual maturity and many other circumstances".	However, if a couple does not want to have a child (on a side note, only "non-egoistic" grounds are a valid reason for it), abstaining from sexual relation is to be preferred . 
noLabel	A series of detailed modelling studies which looked at the Europe wide adoption of renewable energy and interlinking power grids using HVDC cables, indicates that the entire power usage could come from renewables, with 70% total energy from wind at the same sort of costs or lower than at present.	Intermittency would be dealt with, according to this model, by a combination of geographic dispersion to de-link weather system effects, and the ability of HVDC to shift power from windy areas to non-windy areas . 
noLabel	The state with the highest rate of unintended pregnancies was Mississippi, 69 per 1,000 women, followed by California, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Hawaii and Nevada (66 to 67 per 1,000).	New Hampshire had the lowest rate, 36 per 1,000 women, followed by followed by Maine, North Dakota, Vermont and West Virginia (37 to 39 per 1,000 women) . 
noLabel	In 2005, the primary commission of the Democratic National Committee began considering removing New Hampshire and Iowa from the top of the calendar, but this proposal never gained approval, so those two states remain as the first primaries.	New Hampshire also fought back by obliging candidates who wanted to campaign in the state to pledge to uphold that primary as the first one. 
noLabel	Immediately following the attack, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert called Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, explained the situation, and asked him to relay a message to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad that Israel would not tolerate another nuclear plant, but that no further action was planned.	Olmert said that Israel did not want to play up the incident and was still interested in peace with Syria, adding that if Assad chose not to draw attention to the incident, he would do likewise.
noLabel	In New Zealand, unlike in the United Kingdom, the Queen's Official Birthday is a public holiday and is celebrated in the first Monday in June.	Republican Movement surveys conducted in 2009 and 2010 showed there had been no official civic celebrations or plans to celebrate the Queen's birthday on the day, apart from the Queen's Birthday Honours list . 
noLabel	In the 13th&nbsp;century, the physician Lanfranc of Milan's Chiurgia Magna described concussion as brain "commotion", also recognizing a difference between concussion and other types of traumatic brain injury (though many of his contemporaries did not), and discussing the transience of post-concussion symptoms as a result of temporary loss of function from the injury .	In the 14th&nbsp;century, the surgeon Guy de Chauliac pointed out the relatively good prognosis of concussion as compared to more severe types of head trauma such as skull fractures and penetrating head trauma .
noLabel	On the other side was the Catholic doctrine that the Pope, as the Vicar of Christ on earth, should have the ultimate authority over the Church, and indirectly over the state.	Moreover, throughout the Middle Ages the Pope claimed the right to depose the Catholic kings of Western Europe and tried to exercise it, sometimes successfully (see the investiture controversy, below), sometimes not, such as was the case with Henry VIII of England and Henry III of Navarre . 
noLabel	A half-hearted plan for international control was proposed at the newly formed United Nations by Bernard Baruch ("The Baruch Plan"), but it was clear both to American commentators&mdash;and to the Soviets&mdash;that it was an attempt primarily to stymie Russian nuclear efforts.	The Soviets vetoed the plan, effectively ending any immediate postwar negotiations on atomic energy, and made overtures towards banning the use of atomic weapons in general. 
noLabel	Some countries are eliminating or reducing climate disrupting subsidies and Belgium, France, and Japan have phased out all subsidies for coal.	Germany reduced its coal subsidy from $5.4 billion in 1989 to $2.8&nbsp;billion in 2002, and in the process lowered its coal use by 46&nbsp;percent.
noLabel	Another solution to this problem that is being heavily considered when the current BCS agreement ends is to get rid of the AQ status and allow the bowl committees to select the participants they want provided that the school has a sufficiently high BCS ranking so that no BCS bowl will be forced to take a low-ranking AQ conference champion.	This will also allow a third team from the same conference to participate in a BCS bowl, something that is prohibited by the current rules.
noLabel	In Japan, the 1987 success of the PC Engine (as the TurboGrafx-16 was known there) against the Famicom and CD drive peripheral allowed it to fend off the Mega Drive (Genesis) in 1988, which never really caught on to the same degree as outside Japan.	The PC Engine eventually lost out to the Super Famicom, but, due to its popular CD add-ons, retained enough of a user base to support new games well into the late 1990s. 
noLabel	More generally, throughout 2009 and 2010, workers and students in Greece and other European countries demonstrated against cuts to pensions, public services and education spending as a result of government austerity measures .	There was a brief airport strike in Spain in December 2010, and assorted brief "general strike"-like actions in France have taken place, particularly around the very controversial plan of the French government to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62, a proposal which eventually successfully passed. 
noLabel	The Commission on Human Rights, a standing body of the United Nations, was constituted to undertake the work of preparing what was initially conceived as an International Bill of Rights .	The membership of the Commission was designed to be broadly representative of the global community with representatives of the following countries serving: Australia, Belgium, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chile, China, Egypt, France, India, Iran, Lebanon, Panama, Philippines, United Kingdom, United States, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Uruguay and Yugoslavia .
noLabel	Speaking en route to a humanitarian conference in Egypt, the prime minister demanded that Israel reopen Gaza's crossings and allow humanitarian workers full access to the territory .	The UK's Foreign and Commonwealth Office wrote that "We supported the EU statement, which condemned Hamas rocket attacks and described Israeli military action as disproportionate.
noLabel	aseanblogger.com has agreed to set up online ASEAN community with aim to raise people's awareness on the issue of AEC by 2015.	The content of the portal currently consisted of subjects varying from security to culinary and in the future will also touch tourist sites and local culture .
noLabel	The title Sveriges och Götes Konung was last used for Gustaf I of Sweden, after which the title became "King of Sweden, of the Goths and of the Wends" (Sveriges, Götes och Vendes Konung) in official documentation.	Up until the beginning of the 1920s, all laws in Sweden were introduced with the words, "We, the king of Sweden, of the Goths and Wends".
noLabel	In October, Joint Services Protocol 440, a British document advising the security services on how to avoid documents being leaked was published by WikiLeaks .	Later that month, it announced that a super-injunction was being used by the commodities company Trafigura to gag The Guardian (London) from reporting on a leaked internal document regarding a toxic dumping incident in the Ivory Coast .
noLabel	In France, the Gayssot Act, voted for on July 13, 1990, makes it illegal to question the existence of crimes that fall in the category of crimes against humanity as defined in the London Charter of 1945, on the basis of which Nazi leaders were convicted by the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg in 1945-46.	When the act was challenged by Robert Faurisson, the Human Rights Committee upheld it as a necessary means to counter possible antisemitism .
noLabel	Insurers set their premiums to obtain a long term positive expected return in the same manner that professional gamblers select which bets to make.	While insurance is sometimes distinguished from gambling by the requirement of an insurable interest, the equivalent in gambling is simply betting against one's own best interests (e.g., a sports coach betting against his own team to mitigate the financial repercussions of a losing season). 
noLabel	The partial collapse of the Ronan Point tower block is an infamous example of the hasty and substandard construction that occurred in a number of the towers.	The tower blocks quickly lost their 'futuristic' look; concrete turned from the crisp white the designers had imagined to a dull grey, stained by pollution . 
noLabel	These reports alone list an additional 1,500,000 or so murders during mass shootings, the vast majority of these victims were Jews.	Further, surviving Nazi documentation spells out their plans to murder the Jews of Europe (see the Wannsee Conference), recorded the trains arriving at various death camps, and included photographs and films of many atrocities.
noLabel	In the United States, in 2000 cost of obtaining patent (patent prosecution) was estimated from $10,000 to $30,000 per patent .	When patent litigation is involved (which in year 1999 happened in about 1,600 cases compared to 153,000 patents issued in the same year ), costs increase significantly: while 95% of patent litigation cases are settled out of court, but when the case reaches the court, direct legal costs of patent litigation are on average in the order of a million dollars per case, not including associated business costs .
noLabel	In a series of articles and books from 1996 onwards, Robert T. Pennock wrote using the term methodological naturalism to clarify that the scientific method confines itself to natural explanations without assuming the existence or non-existence of the supernatural, and is not based on dogmatic metaphysical naturalism as claimed by creationists and proponents of intelligent design, in particular Phillip E. Johnson.	Pennock's testimony as an expert witness at the Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District trial was cited by the Judge in his Memorandum Opinion concluding that "Methodological naturalism is a "ground rule" of science today":
noLabel	Montessori began to develop her philosophy and methods in 1897, attending courses in pedagogy at the University of Rome and reading the educational theory of the previous two hundred years .	In 1907, she opened her first classroom, the Casa dei Bambini, or Children’s House, in a tenement building in Rome .
noLabel	Downes and Rock (1988) on Parker’s analysis: strain theory applies, labelling theory (from experience with police and courts), control theory (involvement in trouble from early childhood and the eventual decision that the costs outweigh the benefits) and conflict theories.	No ethnic group is more disposed to gang involvement than another, rather it is the status of being marginalised, alienated or rejected that makes some groups more vulnerable to gang formation, and this would also be accounted for in the effect of social exclusion, especially in terms of recruitment and retention.
noLabel	Chemical weapons expert Gert G. Harigel considers only nuclear weapons true weapons of mass destruction, because "only nuclear weapons are completely indiscriminate by their explosive power, heat radiation and radioactivity, and only they should therefore be called a weapon of mass destruction".	He prefers to call chemical and biological weapons "weapons of terror" when aimed against civilians and "weapons of intimidation" for soldiers. 
noLabel	Consider the following examples: in 1905 cars were a luxury, hence an individual unable to afford one would not feel or be viewed as deprived.	In 2010, when cars are common in most societies, an individual unable to afford one is much more likely to feel deprived.
noLabel	Wind does not require any extra back-up, as is often wrongly claimed, since it uses the existing power stations, which are already built, as back-up, and which are started up during low wind periods, just as they are started up now, during the non availability of other conventional plant.	More spinning reserve, of existing plant, is required, but this again is already built and has a low cost comparatively .
noLabel	"The Impact of Legalized Abortion on Crime" is a controversial paper by John J. Donohue III of Yale University and Steven Levitt of University of Chicago that argues that the legalization of abortion in the 1970s contributed significantly to reductions in crime rates experienced in the 1990s.	The paper, published in the Quarterly Journal of Economics in 2001, offers evidence that the falling United States crime rates of the 1990s were mostly caused by the legalization of abortion due to the Roe v. Wade court decision of 1973 .
noLabel	The GSS survey and other proxy measures of gun ownership do not provide adequate macro-level detail to allow conclusions on the relationship between overall firearm ownership and gun violence .	Criminologist Gary Kleck compared various survey and proxy measures and found no correlation between overall firearm ownership and gun violence .
noLabel	For the earlier part of its history the Immigration Service's work was dominated by control of passengers at seaports and the control of crews.	By the late 1950s the numbers of arriving passengers at airports overtook that of seaports for the first time and the distribution of staff began to reflect this.
noLabel	Boat people are frequently a source of controversy in the nation they seek to immigrate to, such as the United States, New Zealand, Germany, France, Russia, Canada, Italy, Japan, South Korea, Spain and Australia.	Boat people are often forcibly prevented from landing at their destination, such as under Australia's Pacific Solution (which operated from 2001 until 2008), or they are subjected to mandatory detention after their arrival.
noLabel	In response to concerns, Dutch broadcaster Radio Netherlands Worldwide created a multi-language website to detail the film, the surrounding controversy, its creator, and the nation of its origin .	The Dutch newspaper De Pers printed a reconstruction of how the concerns came about and who was responsible for them . 
noLabel	On January 9, the IDF hit the Johara tower of Gaza City, which houses more than 20 international news organizations, including Turkish, French, and Iranian outlets .	The IDF Spokesperson's Unit said that the building had not been targeted, though it may have sustained damage from a nearby Israeli strike. 
noLabel	Following the findings of a bilateral EU-IMF audit in June, which called for even further austerity measures, Standard and Poor's downgraded Greece's sovereign debt rating to CCC, the lowest in the world .	After the major political parties failed to reach consensus on the necessary measures to qualify for a further bailout package, and amidst riots and a general strike, Prime Minister George Papandreou proposed a re-shuffled cabinet, and asked for a vote of confidence in the parliament . 
noLabel	Network games for these early personal computers were generally limited to only text based adventures or MUDs that were played remotely on a dedicated server.	This was due both to the slow speed of modems (300-1200-bit/s), and the prohibitive cost involved with putting a computer online in such a way where multiple visitors could make use of it.
noLabel	A common mistake is to use the enswell to push on the swollen area in an attempt to disperse it or move it into a safer place such as away from the eye .	Such treatment will not move the hematoma, and may disrupt the microscopic blood vessels under the skin thus causing an increase in bleeding and enlargement of the swelled area.
noLabel	" The concept has been applied to numerous aspects of public life, including accessibility of polling stations, care provided to HIV patients, whether men and women have equal opportunities to travel on a spaceship, bilingual education, skin color of models in Brazil, television time for political candidates, army promotions, admittance to universities, and ethnicity in the United States .	The term is interrelated with and often contrasted with other conceptions of equality such as equality of outcome and equality of autonomy.
noLabel	In the United Kingdom, some newspapers reported that a school had altered the nursery rhyme “Baa Baa Black Sheep” to read “Baa Baa Rainbow Sheep” .	But it is also reported that a better description is that the Parents and Children Together (PACT) nursery had the children “turn the song into an action rhyme.
noLabel	musical composition, novel), whether the work has been published, and whether the work was created by an individual or a corporation.	In most of the world, the default length of copyright is the life of the author plus either 50 or 70 years.
noLabel	The Royal Australasian College of Physicians (RACP; 2009) state that "after extensive review of the literature" they "[do] not recommend that routine circumcision in infancy be performed".	They also state that "if the operation is to be performed, the medical attendant should ensure this is done by a competent surgeon, using appropriate anaesthesia and in a safe child-friendly environment."
noLabel	Sweden remained officially neutral during World War I and World War II, although its neutrality during World War II has been disputed .	Sweden was under German influence for much of the war, as ties to the rest of the world were cut off through blockades .
noLabel	After two centuries, England has found it convenient to adopt free trade because it thinks that protection can no longer offer it anything.	Very well then, Gentlemen, my knowledge of our country leads me to believe that within 200 years, when America has gotten out of protection all that it can offer, it too will adopt free trade.”  . 
noLabel	Pumps for liquid pipelines and Compressors for gas pipelines, are located along the line to move the product through the pipeline.	The location of these stations is defined by the topography of the terrain, the type of product being transported, or operational conditions of the network. 
noLabel	In the Strategic Defence Review published in July 1998, the United Kingdom government stated that once the Vanguard submarines became fully operational (the fourth and final one, Vengeance, entered service on 27 November 1999), it would "maintain a stockpile of fewer than 200 operationally available warheads" .	The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute has estimated the figure as about 165, consisting of 144 deployed weapons plus an extra 15 percent as spares . 
noLabel	These laws affect SMS, picture and video services, but they do not affect live, streamed content, which is loosely regulated under the same guidelines as control live broadcasting on public television.	The ACMA took over the control of content when it was formed in 2006 by the merger of the ABA and ACA .
noLabel	Public school defenders answer that both of these examples are misleading, as the task of educating students is easier in private schools, which can expel or refuse to accept students who lag behind their peers in academic achievement or behavior, while public schools have no such recourse and must continue to attempt to educate these students.	For this reason, comparisons of the cost of education in public schools to that of private schools is misleading; private school education can be accomplished with less funding because in most cases they educate those students who are easiest to teach . 
noLabel	The most common system, used in Canada, India, the United Kingdom, and some United States elections, is simple plurality, first-past-the-post or winner-takes-all.	In this voting system the single winner is the person with the most votes (plurality); there is no requirement that the winner gain an absolute majority of votes . 
noLabel	On 20 June 2010, Israel's Security Cabinet approved a new system governing the blockade that would allow practically all non-military items to enter the Gaza strip.	According to a cabinet statement, Israel would "expand the transfer of construction materials designated for projects that have been approved by the Palestinian Authority, including schools, health institutions, water, sanitation and more – as well as (projects) that are under international supervision."
noLabel	In this article "free market" is largely identified with laissez faire, though alternative senses are discussed in this section and in criticism.	The identification of the "free market" with "laissez faire" was notably used in the 1962 Capitalism and Freedom, by economist Milton Friedman, which is credited with popularizing this usage .
noLabel	These applications had to be considered by due process but the release of those detained caused police to question the worth of assisting UKIS.	Senior police officers also expressed concern at the escalating use of police stations as places where immigration offenders were required to report having been released. 
noLabel	In the last decades of the twentieth century, Washington, D.C.; Seattle, Washington; Portland, Oregon; and Atlanta, Georgia were recognized as new gateways for resettled refugees.	Particular cities are also identified with some national groups: metropolitan Los Angeles received almost half of the resettled refugees from Iran, 20% of Iraqi refugees went to Detroit, and nearly one-third of refugees from the former Soviet Union were resettled in New York.
noLabel	Deficit reduction in the United States refers to taxation, spending, and economic policy debates and proposals designed to reduce the Federal budget deficit and move the United States to a sustainable fiscal path.	Government agencies including the Government Accountability Office (GAO), Congressional Budget Office, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the U.S. Treasury Department have reported that the federal government is facing a series of important financing challenges.
noLabel	Active Living is a way of life that integrates physical activity into your everyday routines, such as walking to the store or biking to work.	Active living brings together urban planners, architects, transportation engineers, public health professionals, activists and other professionals to build places that encourage active living and physical activity.
noLabel	'Clan'- or 'guild'-based play has since become an accepted (and expected) aspect of multiplayer gaming, with several games offering cash-prize tournament-style competition to their players.	Many clans and guilds also have active fan-bases, which, when combined with the 'tournament' aspect, contribute in turning clan-based gaming into a semi-professional sport. 
noLabel	Most research on only children has been quantitative and focused on the behaviour of only-children and on how others, for example teachers, assess that behaviour.	Bernice Sorensen, in contrast, used qualitative methods in order to elicit meaning and to discover what only-children themselves understand, feel or sense about their lives that are lived without siblings.
noLabel	Article 1 simply binds the signatory parties to secure the rights under the other Articles of the Convention "within their jurisdiction".	In exceptional cases, "jurisdiction" may not be confined to a Contracting State's own national territory; the obligation to secure Convention rights then also extends to foreign territory, such as occupied land in which the State exercises effective control. 
noLabel	The Fiesta Bowl scandal in particular was the catalyst that opened the BCS up to Federal interest for the first time, largely because the government is concerned not only about the BCS's stifling of fair competition, but more importantly for the Federal Government about the possibility of fraud and tax evasion, if the BCS has violated the rules governing tax exempt organizations and groups that control tax exempt organizations.	If the BCS Bowls, who are each separate entities yet also part of the BCS as a whole as well were to lose their tax exempt status, they could be liable for back taxes totaling hundreds of millions of dollars.
noLabel	Access to clear the forest was facilitated by the land tenure policy in Brazil that meant developers could proceed without restraint and install new cattle ranches which in turn functioned as a qualification for land ownership .	The removal of the Amazon forest for cattle farming in Brazil was also seen by developers as an economic investment during periods of high inflation where the appreciation of cattle prices providing a way of outpacing the interest rate earned on money left in the bank.
noLabel	But while Palestinian operations caused strong damage, there is evidence that the IDF reprisal targeted killing policy has been salutary in reducing the effectiveness of such attacks although it increased the number of HAMAS attacks between 2001 and 2005 .	Although the total number of Hamas operations increased, deaths resulting from such attacks plunged from a high of 75 in 2001, to 21 in 2005 . 
noLabel	account for more than half the population, although people of mixed ethnic backgrounds form an increasingly larger segment; roughly two-fifths of the total are mulattoes (mulattos; people of mixed African and European ancestry) and mestizos (mestiços, or caboclos; people of mixed European and Indian ancestry).	Portuguese are the main European ethnic group in Brazil, and most Brazilians can trace their ancestry to an ethnic Portuguese or a mixed-race Portuguese.
noLabel	The US drug control policies in Mexico that have been adopted to prevent drug trafficking via Mexico and to eliminate the power of the drug cartels that bring about corruption, terror and violence have adversely affected the human rights situation in Mexico.	These policies have given the responsibilities for civilian drug control to the military, which has the power to not only carry out anti-drug and public security operations but also enact policy.
noLabel	India prohibits any manner of expression which someone might consider insulting to his religion or which for whatever reason might disturb public tranquility.	Under article 19(2) of the constitution of India certain reasonable restrictions have been imposed on the right of freedom of speech and expression such as sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with the foreign states, public order, decency and morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offense.
noLabel	The JPFO and its leadership has also criticized the NRA's political strategy on several occasions, lambasting what it views as their counterproductive focus on Capitol Hill lobbying, as well as taking the NRA and its leadership to task for not explicitly making a connection between gun control measures introduced in the United States and those implemented by the Weimar Republic and subsequently the Nazi regime in pre-war Germany, as well as other totalitarian, or ineffectual regimes that were eventually overthrown .	To a certain extent, this criticism has been addressed in recent years by Wayne LaPierre, who has argued that the atrocities committed in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the Yugoslavian Civil War, as well as the Rwandan genocide of 1994, can be traced to a lack of institutional, individual gun rights in those countries. 
noLabel	Discussion would drive the onwards march of truth and by considering false views the basis of true views could be re-affirmed .	Furthermore, Mill argued that an opinion only carries intrinsic value to the owner of that opinion, thus silencing the expression of that opinion is an injustice to a basic human right.
noLabel	Families of those who were oppressed by the Nazi regime (usually Jews or homosexuals) were exempted from conscription, though a small number did serve .	Although conscription was of a military nature, in the last days of conscription twice as many draftees refused military service and served in alternative services.
noLabel	According to local news media, "the Commission capitulated to tremendous pressure from state leaders to junk its own pupil assignment plan" .	The Commission also approved a program to provide tuition grants to students in shuttered school districts so they could attend a nonsectarian school of their choice .
noLabel	The United Nations' special envoy to Myanmar, Ibrahim Gambari, was allowed into the country after the Burmese authorities bowed to international pressure.	He was sent to Myanmar after the Security Council convened in New York over the crisis to call for restraint .
noLabel	However, on June 19, 2008, he opted out of public campaign financing and declared, "I support a robust system of public financing of elections (..) but the public financing of presidential elections as it exists today is broken.	" Furthermore he has maintained that he will not take contributions from federal lobbyists and special interests during his 2008 presidential campaign. 
noLabel	Roman law was aimed at giving sufficient scope for the discussion of a man's character, while it protected him from needless insult and pain.	The remedy for verbal defamation was long confined to a civil action for a monetary penalty, which was estimated according to the significance of the case, and which, although vindictive in its character, doubtless included practically the element of compensation.
noLabel	The Soviet Union was not invited to share in the new weapons developed by the United States and the other Allies.	During the war, information had been pouring in from a number of volunteer spies involved with the Manhattan Project (known in Soviet cables under the code-name of Enormoz), and the Soviet nuclear physicist Igor Kurchatov was carefully watching the Allied weapons development.
noLabel	Vote splitting most easily occurs in plurality voting (also called first-past-the-post) in which each voter indicates a single choice and the candidate with the most votes wins, even if the winner does not have majority support.	For example, if candidate A1 receives 30% of the votes, similar candidate A2 receives another 30% of the votes, and dissimilar candidate B receives the remaining 40% of the votes, plurality voting declares candidate B as the winner, even though 60% of the voters prefer either candidate A1 or A2. 
noLabel	Tonight with Trevor McDonald highlighted that in Leeds and Manchester (perhaps the cities that had seen most development) only approximately half were occupied and with owner occupation often being as low as 10%.	In Southend there are controversial plans to build new tower blocks for social housing, a supporter claims this will be cheaper than paying to house poor people with private landlords while opponents fear the creation of Ghettos . 
noLabel	If a person who has been added to the VEP list enters or attempts to enter a casino that participates in the VEP, they are immediately arrested and charged with criminal trespassing.	In addition, any chips, tokens, credits or other winnings in their possession at the time of arrest can be confiscated or invalidated. 
noLabel	Among U.S. Latinos, higher levels of adoption of the American host culture has been associated with negative effects on health behaviors and outcomes, but positive effects on health care use and access .	The effects of acculturation on physical health is thought to be a major factor in the Immigrant Paradox, the finding that first generation immigrants tend to have better health outcomes than members of the host culture, and that these differences decrease over generations. 
noLabel	BBC's World Affairs correspondent Paul Reynolds said that if Gaza is treated as a "hostile entity" the question is whether the measures used by Israel and Egypt sufficiently distinguish between civilian and military.	The 1977 amendment to the Geneva Conventions protocols prohibits the use of collective measures that do not distinguish between civilians and military .
noLabel	Catholic teachings on sexual morality draw from natural law, Sacred Scripture and Sacred Tradition and are promulgated authoritatively by the Magisterium.	Sexual morality evaluates the goodness of sexual behavior, and often provides general principles by which Catholics are able to evaluate the morality of specific actions. 
noLabel	However, in Hurley v. Irish-American Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Group of Boston, , the Court ruled that a group may exclude people from membership if their presence would affect the group's ability to advocate a particular point of view.	Likewise, in Boy Scouts of America v. Dale, , the Supreme Court ruled that a New Jersey law, which forced the Boy Scouts of America to admit an openly gay member, to be an unconstitutional abridgment of the Boy Scouts' right to free association.
noLabel	Researchers at the University of Arizona, University of Texas-Austin and Wake Forest University have found that girls who have positive relationships with their fathers wait longer before they have sex .	Other research shows that kids whose dads are involved report less sexual activity than on average, and less risky sexual behaviors when they do . 
noLabel	Thus, he created this theory of the French aristocrats as being the descendants of foreign invaders, whom he called the "Franks", while the Third Estate constituted according to him the autochthonous, vanquished Gallo-Romans, who were dominated by the Frankish aristocracy as a consequence of the right of conquest.	Early modern racism was opposed to nationalism and the nation-state: the Comte de Montlosier, in exile during the French Revolution, who borrowed Boulainvilliers' discourse on the "Nordic race" as being the French aristocracy that invaded the plebeian "Gauls", thus showed his despise for the Third Estate calling it "this new people born of slaves.. mixture of all races and of all times". 
noLabel	The FTC later claimed that in 2005, cigarette companies spent $13.11 billion on advertising and promotion, down from $15.12 billion in 2003, but nearly double what was spent in 1998.	The increase, despite restrictions on the advertising in most countries, was an attempt at appealing to a younger audience, including multi-purchase offers and giveaways such as hats and lighters, along with the more traditional store and magazine advertising . 
noLabel	Former officers have emphasized that they never felt as limited by the logic of MAD (and were prepared to use nuclear weapons in smaller scale situations than "Assured Destruction" allowed), and did not deliberately target civilian cities (though they acknowledge that the result of a "purely military" attack would certainly devastate the cities as well).	MAD was implied in several U.S. policies and used in the political rhetoric of leaders in both the U.S. and the USSR during many periods of the Cold War.
noLabel	This number does not include the numerous universities that disappeared, or institutions that merged with other universities during this time .	It should be noted that the identification of a university was not necessarily obvious during the Early Modern period, as the term is applied to a burgeoning number of institutions.
noLabel	The OJJDP also reported that the total number of juvenile arrests in 2006 for sex offenses (other than forcible rape) was 15,900 with 10% being female and 47% being under the age of 15 .	There was again a decrease with the trend throughout the years with sex offenses from 1997-2006 being -16% and from 2005-2006 being -9% .
noLabel	The balance of evidence at the present time indicates that these structures are present and functional before the tenth week of intrauterine life.	" In response, Wendy Savage Press officer, Doctors for a Woman’s Choice on Abortion, pointed out that the majority of surgical abortions in Britain are already performed under general anesthesia, which also affects the fetus.
noLabel	While there are alleged non-physical differences between men and women, major reviews of the academic literature on gender difference find only a tiny minority of characteristics where there are consistent psychological differences between men and women, and these relate directly to experiences grounded in biological difference .	However, there are also some psychological differences in regard to how problems are dealt with and emotional perceptions and reactions which may relate to hormones and the successful characteristics of each gender during longstanding roles in past primitive lifestyles. 
noLabel	According to the OJJDP, the time of day that a crime occurs does not differ greatly on a non-school day (for example, if the children have a day off school, the crimes will not occur any earlier).	This could be related to the fact that many of the days that children are out of school are national holidays, so their parents or parent might be home from work and supervising them.
noLabel	Then the plot is left fallow to regrow forest, and the farmer moves to a new plot, returning after many more years (10-20).	This fallow period is shortened if population density grows, requiring the input of nutrients (fertilizer or manure) and some manual pest control.
noLabel	GCJ in particular caused a bad user experience for Java on GNU/Linux, because some free software supporting distributions such as Fedora and Ubuntu shipped GCJ at the time as their Java implementation.	How to replace GCJ with the Sun JDK was a frequently asked question by users, because GCJ was an incomplete implementation, incompatible and buggy. 
noLabel	Students sit for a standardised test at the end of both stages; Penilaian Menengah Rendah (PMR) for Lower Secondary, and Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM, equivalent to the O-Level examination) for Upper Secondary.	At the end of the sixth form, students sit for the Sijil Tinggi Pelajaran Malaysia or the Malaysian Higher School Certificate (equivalent to the A levels).
noLabel	By the end of the 1980s, membership had fallen to just over 6,000,000—little more than half the level of a decade earlier—and it also counted against the Labour Party's hopes of regaining power, as its relationship with the trade unions had traditionally been seen as a strength but after the Winter of Discontent it was seen as a liability.	Manufacturing, the main source of union strength in the United Kingdom, had shrunk by half during the early 1980s recession pushing unemployment from 1,500,000 to more than 3,000,000 . 
noLabel	The K-8th format is also an emerging popular concept, in which students may attend only two schools for all of their K-12 education.	Many charter schools feature the K-8 format in which all primary grades are housed in one section of the school while the traditional junior high school aged students are housed in another section of the school.
noLabel	He states that he believes that stem cell research, and indeed embryonic stem cell research, will continue whether or not the U.S. sanctions it, and so it would be the wisest course of action to support it to the extent that the United States will be able to regulate and monitor the use.	Obama supports federal funding for embryonic stem cell research and was a co-sponsor of the 2005 Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act which was passed by both houses of Congress but vetoed by President George W. Bush.
noLabel	No official figures were available, since the Colombian government dropped any references to race in the census after 1918, but according to rough estimates in the late 1980s, mestizos (white and native American mix) constituted approximately 50% of the population, whites (predominantly Spanish origin, Italian, German, French, etc.)	made a 25%, mulattoes (black-white mix) 14% and zambos (black and native American mix) 4%, blacks (pure or predominantly of African origin) 3% percent, and Native Americans 1%.
noLabel	The newspaper of the IWW, the Industrial Worker, published the following on October 28: "Wanted&mdash;Men to Fill the Jails of Spokane."	Then the IWW sent out a notice to all locations, "Nov. 2, FREE SPEECH DAY&mdash;IWW locals will be notified by wire how many men to send if any..
noLabel	The first bare-knuckle champion of England was James Figg, who claimed the title in 1719 and held it until his retirement in 1730 .	Other noted champions were Jack Broughton, Daniel Mendoza, Jem Belcher, Hen Pearce, John Gully, Tom Cribb, Tom Spring, Jem Ward, James Burke, William 'Bendigo' Thompson, Caitlin "Swan" McDonald, Ben Caunt, Tom Sayers and Jem Mace . 
noLabel	In 1842 Palmer bought large amounts of space in various newspapers at a discounted rate then resold the space at higher rates to advertisers.	The actual ad - the copy, layout, and artwork - was still prepared by the company wishing to advertise; in effect, Palmer was a space broker.
noLabel	The fusion layer wrapped around the fission core could only moderately multiply the fission energy (modern Teller–Ulam designs can multiply it 30-fold).	Additionally, the whole fusion stage had to be imploded by conventional explosives, along with the fission core, multiplying the bulk of chemical explosives needed substantially. 
noLabel	In May 1990, the government held free elections for the first time in almost 30 years and the National League for Democracy (NLD), the party of Aung San Suu Kyi, won 392 out of a total 489 seats (i.e., 80% of the seats).	However, the military junta refused to cede power and continued to rule the nation as SLORC until 1997, and then as the State Peace and Development Council (SPDC) until its dissolution in March 2011. 
noLabel	Unschoolers cite studies which report that home educated students tend to be more mature than their schooled peers, and some believe this is a result of the wide range of people with which they have the opportunity to communicate .	Critics of unschooling, on the other hand, argue that unschooling inhibits social development by removing children from a ready-made peer group of diverse individuals .
noLabel	In February and March, Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made separate overseas trips to announce a "new era" in U.S. foreign relations with Russia and Europe, using the terms "break" and "reset" to signal major changes from the policies of the preceding administration .	Obama attempted to reach out to Arab leaders by granting his first interview to an Arab cable TV network, Al Arabiya . 
noLabel	By analogy with biodiversity, which is thought to be essential to the long-term survival of life on earth, it can be argued that cultural diversity may be vital for the long-term survival of humanity; and that the conservation of indigenous cultures may be as important to humankind as the conservation of species and ecosystems is to life in general.	The General Conference of UNESCO took this position in 2001, asserting in Article 1 of the Universal Declaration on Cultural Diversity that "..cultural diversity is as necessary for humankind as biodiversity is for nature" . 
noLabel	German, French, and British intelligence say that under a worst case scenario it would take Iran a minimum of 18 months to develop a nuclear weapon if it chose to build one, and it would have to first purify its uranium and weaponize its uranium .	An anonymous source in the German Foreign Intelligence Service (BND) whose rank was not provided has gone further and claimed Iran could produce a nuclear bomb and conduct an underground test in 6 months if it wanted to and further asserted that Iran had already mastered the full uranium enrichment cycle, and possessed enough centrifuges to produce weapons-grade uranium .
noLabel	Towards the conclusion of the Third Forum of the Alliance, the outcomes were announced by Jorge Sampaio, the High Representative of the UN Alliance of Civilizations and former President of Portugal.	The results presented the commitments of all participants to the existing initiatives, as well as new ones, such as the inauguration of the first two Dialogue Cafés, which uses the latest video conferencing technology to connect young people in different parts of the world; the first conference of the Global Youth Movement; the creation of the United Nations University International Institute for the Alliance of Civilizations; and launching of the Online Community on Migration and Integration in partnership with the International Organization for Migration.
noLabel	Studies examining the relationship between percentages of different rates in an area and crime rates have generally either found similar relationships as for nationwide crime rates or no significant relationships.	Most studied is the correlation between proportion of blacks in an area and crime with most of the studies finding a relationship, especially regarding violent offenses .
noLabel	Both of these examples are events that bring a focus to relevant and important current issues that are able to be addressed in the sense of video games to educate and spread knowledge in a new form of media.	www.NobelPrize.org uses games to entice the user to learn about information pertaining to the Nobel prize achievements while engaging in a fun to play video game .
noLabel	The seasonal patterns in respiration are controlled by leaf litter fall and precipitation, the driving force moving the decomposable carbon from the litter to the soil.	Respiration rates are highest early in the wet season because the recent dry season results in a large percentage of leaf litter and thus a higher percentage of organic matter being leached into the soil .
noLabel	Over time, CIFOR decided to increase the focus of its research on forest policy rather than on technical forestry or tree breeding, in order to complement the efforts of national and private-sector institutes.	Instead of having laboratories, CIFOR would be a ‘Center without walls’, marshalling interdisciplinary research teams in collaboration with partners to tackle forest policy changes in an increasingly complex and globalised world.
noLabel	This definition excludes any works that are the result of community creativity, for example Native American songs and stories; current legislation does not recognize the uniqueness of indigenous cultural 'property' and its ever-changing nature.	Simply asking native cultures to 'write down' their cultural artifacts on tangible mediums ignores their necessary orality and enforces a Western bias of the written form as more authoritative.
noLabel	Corrupt election officials may misuse voting regulations such as a literacy test or requirement for proof of identity or address in such a way as to make it difficult or impossible for their targets to cast a vote.	If such practices discriminate against a religious or ethnic group, they may so distort the political process that the political order becomes grossly unrepresentative, as in the post-Reconstruction or Jim Crow era until the Voting Rights Act of 1965. 
noLabel	In a key scene of the film "Der alte und der junge König"(The Old and the Young King), a German Historical film made under Nazi rule in 1935, King Friedrich Wilhelm I of Prussia is shown throwing into an open fire the beloved French-language books of his son, Crown Prince Friedrich (the future Friedrich II), as well as the Prince's flute.	The film - banned after the fall of the Nazis as a piece of propaganda making manipulative use of history - presents this book burning as a positive and necessary act, which was needed in order to "educate" and "toughen up" the young prince, so as to "prepare him for becoming a great ruler".
noLabel	Although immigration officers were conferred powers of arrest under the 1971 Act they did not use these as a matter of policy and they were reliant of police officers and police facilities to perform their duties.	When conducting pro-active investigations to private addresses immigration officers would take the lead in identifying immigration offenders and ask police to execute the arrest on their behalf. 
noLabel	On April 6, 2008, five thousand members of the Jamaat-e-Islami political party held a demonstration in Karachi, in protest of both Wilders' film and the Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons.	The leader of the political party stated that "such shameful acts can never be tolerated in the name of freedom of expression or press," and asserted that anyone who committed a crime of provoking Muslims should be declared "terrorists" . 
noLabel	Faith as contradicting rationality: In this view, faith is seen as those views that one holds despite evidence and reason to the contrary.	Accordingly, faith is seen as pernicious with respect to rationality, as it interferes with our ability to think, and inversely rationality is seen as the enemy of faith by interfering with our beliefs. 
noLabel	Some critics of religion say that religion is merely an early phase during the development of a culture or society, and that religion is often replaced with more rational or reasonable belief systems.	Many critics assert that the needs of religion can be met with alternative, superior means, namely: the need for explaining life and death can be met by science and philosophy; questions of good and evil are addressed by ethics; and inspiration and beauty can be found in the arts . 
noLabel	An Amnesty International report called on Israel to confirm or deny its use of DIME in order to facilitate the treatment of those injured in the conflict.	In amnesty's view as a new weapon, more research is needed to asses whether the use of DIME is lawful under international law .
noLabel	" Fox News Channel reported that on May 19, 2010, a Facebook group supporting the protest movement had 41,000 members, and The Register reported this increased to 43,000 the same day .	Norris told Fox News Channel in a statement on May 19, "It's turned into something completely different, nothing I could've imagined it morphing into.
noLabel	A condom ( or ) is a barrier device most commonly used during sexual intercourse to reduce the probability of pregnancy and spreading sexually transmitted diseases (STDs—such as gonorrhea, syphilis, and HIV).	It is put on a man's erect penis and physically blocks ejaculated semen from entering the body of a sexual partner.
noLabel	The 1992 Convention on Biological Diversity has resulted in international Biodiversity Action Plan programmes, which attempt to provide comprehensive guidelines for government biodiversity conservation.	Advocacy groups, such as The Wildlands Project and the Alliance for Zero Extinctions, work to educate the public and pressure governments into action. 
noLabel	Lowering prices on healthy foods, developing or re-formulating food products to be healthier, and eliminating “food deserts” (urban and rural areas with a shortage of grocery stores) in America are all part of this goal .	The Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Kathleen Merrigan said that lack of access to healthy food leads to hunger, which subsequently leads to obesity, so this goal is trying to fix the root of the problem by making healthy options more available and affordable .
noLabel	People with TBI who cannot live independently or with family may require care in supported living facilities such as group homes .	Respite care, including day centers and leisure facilities for the disabled, offers time off for caregivers, and activities for people with TBI . 
noLabel	In December 2010, WikiLeaks published a classified diplomatic cable that had been written in September 2006 by James P. Cain, the United States Ambassador to Denmark at the time.	It reported that the Jyllands-Posten had decided against reprinting the cartoons on the first anniversary of the original publication, and observed: .
noLabel	In creating its laws and dealing out sanctions, the school meeting generally applies A.S. Neill's maxim "Freedom not Licence" (he wrote a book of the same name); the principle that you can do as you please, so long as it doesn't cause harm to others.	Hence, you are free to swear as much as you like, within the school grounds, but calling someone else an offensive name is licence. 
noLabel	The first Soviet fusion design, developed by Andrei Sakharov and Vitaly Ginzburg in 1949 (before the Soviets had a working fission bomb), was dubbed the Sloika, after a Russian layer cake, and was not of the Teller–Ulam configuration.	It used alternating layers of fissile material and lithium deuteride fusion fuel spiked with tritium (this was later dubbed Sakharov's "First Idea").
noLabel	Leicester City Council voted to introduce a mayor in 2010, and an election was held in 2011 for the position .	Meanwhile despite legislation being passed for a referendum in Liverpool, the City Council voted to bypass the referendum and to instead hold a mayoral election on the same day as other local elections in May . 
noLabel	Legal scholars, economists, activists, policymakers, industries, and trade organizations have held differing views on patents and engaged in contentious debates on the subject.	Critical perspectives emerged in the nineteenth century, and recent debates have discussed the merits and faults of software patents and biological patents. 
noLabel	Other issues also prompted condemnations or revocations of rights to teach: for instance, some posthumous writings of Jesuit priest Anthony de Mello were the subject of a "notification".	Ratzinger and the congregation viewed many of them, particularly the later works, as having an element of religious indifferentism (i.e., Christ was "one master alongside others").
noLabel	One of the leading theories in understanding immigrant assimilation came from William I. Thomas and Florian Znaniecki who published The Polish Peasant in Europe and America.	Thomas and Znaniecki's study on Polish immigrants (1880–1910) assessed how these immigrants built an institutional community in the United States during the Napoleonic War .
noLabel	The Convention’s main objective is to provide a legally-binding international agreement that reaffirms the sovereign right of States to adopt cultural policies that support their cultural industries .	Recognizing that the diversity of cultural expressions is a "rich asset for individuals and societies, the protection, promotion and maintenance of cultural diversity are an essential requirement for sustainable development for the benefit of present and future generations."
noLabel	Counter punchers are slippery, defensive style fighters who often rely on their opponent's mistakes in order to gain the advantage whether it be on the score cards or more preferably a knockout.	They use their well rounded defense to avoid or block shots and then immediately catch the opponent off guard with a well placed and timed punch.
noLabel	No study can be free of all of these faults and so part of the policy debate will center on which studies are "most free" of confounding error.	It must be considered, however, whenever a public policy change concerning firearms is proposed (either loosening or tightening gun restrictions) that three assumptions are being made. 
noLabel	J.C. Herz argued that many so-called negative effects of video games, such as aggression and lack of pro-social behavior, are both necessary and useful traits to have in a capitalistic society.	Specifically, Herz argued that many academic researchers have an anti-capitalist bias, and thus failed to notice the benefits of such traits . 
noLabel	The advantages of this system include the feature that lesser known candidates could still have a chance by using retail politics in small states early, without giving those early small states too much influence.	Travel time and advertising cost would be minimized by requiring that groups of states be contiguous, thus saving the hopefuls’ time and money.
noLabel	On August 1, 2008, the IAEA approved the India Safeguards Agreement and on September 6, 2008, India was granted the waiver at the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) meeting held in Vienna, Austria.	The consensus was arrived after overcoming misgivings expressed by Austria, Ireland and New Zealand and is an unprecedented step in giving exemption to a country, which has not signed the NPT and the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) .
noLabel	To enhance the sharing of information and experience among IAEA Member States concerning the seismic safety of nuclear facilities, in 2008 the IAEA established the International Seismic Safety Center.	This center is establishing safety standards and providing for their application in relation to site selection, site evaluation and seismic design.
noLabel	Poverty is a huge problem worldwide, the US census in 2010 recorded that 15.1% of people in the US live in poverty, and for those aged under 18’s the rate was even higher at 22%.	[1] While the numbers in absolute poverty have been dropping there were still 1.4billion people on less than $1.25 per day as of 2005.
noLabel	Israel's ambassador to the U.S., Michael Oren, said "We think it was a fair and balanced report", and that Israel would not apologize to Turkey .	The Israeli Prime Minister's Office stated that Israel has adopted the report, except for its conclusions regarding the use of force in the flotilla raid .
noLabel	Some state schools, known as faith schools, have formal links with religious organisations, and are permitted to promote a particular religious ethos and to use faith criteria in their admissions.	Some maintained schools are partially funded by religious or other charitable bodies; these are known as voluntary controlled schools, voluntary aided schools or foundation schools. 
noLabel	In October 2011, U.S. communications agency Bromley launched a new model/strategy utilizing transcultural sociological theory as a means to segment and 'make sense' of the changing American cultural landscape.	Returning to classic social science as a solution, Bromley has embraced the anthropological approach put forward by thinkers like Fernando Ortiz as a way to account for ethnicity and language without being limited by them as a way for viewing the world.
noLabel	 The tests may be administered hours, days, or weeks after the injury, or at different times to determine whether there is a trend in the patient's condition .	Athletes may be tested before a sports season begins to provide a baseline neurocognitive test for comparison in the event of an injury, though it may not reduce risk or effect return to play . 
noLabel	Perceived unwillingness on the part of the United States to act on the report was criticized by the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), which represents 118 nations, the Center for Constitutional Rights, Stephen Zunes, professor of politics and international studies at the University of San Francisco, and Human Rights Watch .	Naomi Klein stated that instead of proving its commitment to international law, the United States is smearing the "courageous" report .
noLabel	USA Track and Field has proposed a zero-tolerance policy, meaning athletes could face a lifetime ban for a first steroid offense.	Track's world governing body has said it may increase the penalty for first-time drug cheats to a four-year suspension from two years, and it has offered to reduce the penalty for athletes caught using THG if they blow the whistle on others.
noLabel	If the calumny is written and with publicity, penalty is “lower imprisonment” in its medium degree plus a fine of 11 to 20 “vital wages” when it refers to a crime, or “lower imprisonment” in its minimum degree plus a fine of 6 to 10 “vital wages” when it refers to a misdemeanor (Article 413).	If it’s not written or with publicity, penalty is “lower imprisonment” in its minimum degree plus a fine of 6 to 15 “vital wages” when it's about a crime, or plus a fine of 6 to 10 “vital wages” when it's about a misdemeanor (Article 414) . 
noLabel	As part of the dual education system, the Berufsschule is a part-time school, with students attending 8–12 45-minute lessons a week.	Sometimes schooling is arranged in blocks of several weeks, in particular for trades which are only learnt by a small number of people.
noLabel	Palestinian National Authority President Mahmoud Abbas (of Fatah) has condemned the attacks several times, "regardless of who is responsible for them", on one occasion calling them "absurd", and on another saying that "they do not go in the direction of peace.	" On at least one occasion in 2009, Hamas itself criticized rocket attacks by an unknown group, apparently out of fears that new rocket fire could disrupt reconciliation talks between Hamas and Fatah which were then underway . 
noLabel	To relieve certain kinds of companies, which the bill calls "emerging growth companies," from certain regulatory and disclosure requirements in the registration statement they originally file when they go public, and for a period of five years after that.	The most significant relief provided is from obligations imposed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules and regulations.
noLabel	The strongest electoral challenge to Rangel came during his first re-election bid, in 1972, when he faced a Democratic primary challenge from HARYOU-ACT director Livingston Wingate, who had the backing of the old Powell organization and the Congress of Racial Equality, a black nationalist group that Rangel publicly denounced .	Rangel had the backing of the other Democratic power bases, however, and won the primary by a 3–to–1 margin and the general election easily. 
noLabel	By contrast, the Conservative provincial government of Alberta has frequently quarrelled with federal administrations perceived to be dominated by "eastern liberal elites."	 Part of this is due to what Albertans feel were federal intrusions on provincial jurisdictions such as the National Energy Program and other attempts to 'interfere' with Albertan oil resources.
noLabel	On several Indymedia-sites  and other news and community sites around the world it was soon suggested that the violence was perpetrated by the Mexican Army against the Zapatista Ch'ol tribe, and that the EU was involved in relation to Plan Puebla Panamá.	Before the project even got started Prodesis was already accused of being a counter-insurgency project aimed at getting rid of the local population to gain control over the regions' natural resources. 
noLabel	The world's largest sportswear brand have pledged to continue their commercial deals with the disgraced doper ΓÇô they sell close to 100 items of Armstrong-related clothing.	Why would the world's leading sportswear brand want to continue to be associated with a man who was at the centre of one of sport's biggest frauds?
noLabel	Support for Stanley's plan came almost exclusively from the Southside and counties around it, the Tidewater counties, and portions of Southwest Virginia .	Much of the lack of support focused on whether the plan would actually pass court muster as well as halt desegregation.
noLabel	In Britain's Australian colonies, Australia's first canonised Saint, Mary MacKillop, co-founded the Sisters of St. Joseph of the Sacred Heart as an educative order for the poor in 1866.	Tension with the local male hierarchy culminated in the local archbishop attempting to excommunicate her but Pope Pius IX's personal approval permitted her to continue her work and by the time of her death her order had established a 117 schools and had opened orphanages and refuges for the needy . 
noLabel	In addition to defining human life to begin at conception at the Federal level, Paul's Sanctity of Life Act would remove challenges to prohibitions on abortion from federal court jurisdiction .	In 2005, Paul also introduced the We the People Act, which would have removed "any claim based upon the right of privacy, including any such claim related to any issue of .. reproduction" from the jurisdiction of federal courts.
noLabel	These included scientists such as Wernher von Braun, who had helped design the V-2 rockets the Nazis launched across the English Channel.	An American program, Project Paperclip, had endeavored to move German scientists into American hands (and away from Soviet hands) and put them to work for the U.S.
noLabel	In the 1830s, at the early peak in U.S. canal-building, hydropower provided the energy to transport barge traffic up and down steep hills using inclined plane railroads.	About the same time and later, as railroads overtook canals for transportation, canal systems were modified and developed into hydropower systems; the history of Lowell, Massachusetts is a classic example of commercial development and industrialization, built upon the availability of water power. 
noLabel	Also in 2004, Bruce Blair, president of the Center for Defense Information stated: "I wouldn't be at all surprised if nuclear weapons are used over the next 15 or 20 years, first and foremost by a terrorist group that gets its hands on a Russian nuclear weapon or a Pakistani nuclear weapon" .	In 2006, Robert Gallucci, Dean of the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, estimated that “it is more likely than not that al Qaeda or one of its affiliates will detonate a nuclear weapon in a U.S. city within the next five to ten years" . 
noLabel	It is enough to deform the nucleus into a double-lobed "drop," to the point that nuclear fragments exceed the distances at which the nuclear force can hold two groups of charged nucleons together, and when this happens, the two fragments complete their separation and then are driven further apart by their mutually repulsive charges, in a process which becomes irreversible with greater and greater distance.	A similar process occurs in fissionable isotopes (such as uranium-238), but in order to fission, these isotopes require additional energy provided by fast neutrons (such as produced by nuclear fusion in thermonuclear weapons). 
noLabel	In a study focusing only on the views about Jews of Germans opposed to the Nazi regime, the German historian Christof Dipper in his 1983 essay "Der Deutsche Widerstand und die Juden" (translated into English as "The German Resistance and the Jews" in Yad Vashem Studies, Volume 16, 1984) argued that the majority of the anti-Nazi national-conservatives were antisemitic .	Dipper wrote that for the majority of the national-conservatives "the bureaucratic, pseudo-legal deprivation of the Jews practiced until 1938 was still considered acceptable" .
noLabel	Vermont and Massachusetts attempted to stage a joint New England primary on the first Tuesday of March, but New Hampshire refused to participate so it could retain its traditional place as the first primary.	The first successful regional primary was Super Tuesday of March 8, 1988, in which nine Southern states united in the hope that the Democrats would select a candidate in line with Southern interests . 
noLabel	One of the primary elements of the cultural interpretation of the Enlightenment is the rise of the public sphere in Europe.	Jürgen Habermas has influenced thinking on the public sphere more than any other, though his model is increasingly called into question.
noLabel	There is a highly publicized denial of climate change but the vast majority of scientists working in climatology accept that it is due to human activity.	The IPCC report Climate Change 2007: Climate Change Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability predicts that climate change will cause shortages of food and water and increased risk of flooding that will affect billions of people, particularly those living in poverty .
noLabel	State and federal courts historically have used two models to interpret the Second Amendment: the now generally accepted individual rights model, and the "collective rights" model, which holds that the right is dependent on militia membership.	While having influenced a number of past court cases, the "collective rights" model has been discarded by the U.S. Supreme Court, in favor of the individual rights model. 
noLabel	World Bank estimates for remittance flows to developing countries in 2004 totalled $122 billion; however, this number is expected to change upwards in the next few years as the formulas used to calculate remittance flows are modified.	The exact nature and effects of remittance money remain contested, however in at least 36 of the 153 countries tracked remittance sums were second only to FDI and outnumbered both public and private aid donations . 
noLabel	As of 1905, there were 80,000 cigar-making operations in the United States, most of them small, family-operated shops where cigars were rolled and sold immediately .	While most cigars are now made by machine, some, as a matter of prestige and quality, are still rolled by hand.
noLabel	Under the National Curriculum, all pupils undergo National Curriculum Tests (NCTs, commonly still referred to by their previous name of Standard Attainment Tests, or SATs) towards the ends of Key Stage 2 in the core subjects of Literacy, Numeracy and Science, but not in the foundation subjects such as Geography, History and Information & Communication Technology where individual teacher assessment is used instead.	Pupils normally take GCSE exams in the last two years of Key Stage 4, but may also choose to work towards the attainment of alternative qualifications, such as the GNVQ. 
noLabel	The Napoleonic era institutionalized the secularization of French society, and exported the revolution to northern Italy, in the hopes of creating pliable republics.	In the 19th century, atheists contributed to political and social revolution, facilitating the upheavals of 1848, the Risorgimento in Italy, and the growth of an international socialist movement. 
noLabel	The Elementary Education Act 1870, commonly known as Forster's Education Act, set the framework for schooling of all children between ages 5 and 12 in England and Wales.	It was drafted by William Forster, a Liberal MP, and it was introduced on 17 February 1870 after campaigning by the National Education League, although not entirely to their requirements.
noLabel	The focus of public health intervention is to improve health and quality of life through the prevention and treatment of disease and other physical and mental health conditions, through surveillance of cases and the promotion of healthy behaviors.	Promotion of hand washing and breastfeeding, delivery of vaccinations, and distribution of condoms to control the spread of sexually transmitted diseases are examples of common public health measures. 
noLabel	As such, O'Brien's protest was not protected because the United States had a compelling interest in preventing the destruction or mutilation of draft cards.	To help himself and future justices determine what may be protected under the free speech clause, he developed a series of requirements that laws must meet in order to stay out of conflict with the First, and thus be considered constitutional, known now as the O'Brien test .
noLabel	Many people use the term "democracy" as shorthand for liberal democracy, which may include elements such as political pluralism; equality before the law; the right to petition elected officials for redress of grievances; due process; civil liberties; human rights; and elements of civil society outside the government.	In the United States, separation of powers is often cited as a central attribute, but in other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the dominant principle is that of parliamentary sovereignty (whilst maintaining judicial independence).
noLabel	" In response, Ephraim Sneh, former Israeli minister, said: "Cameron is right – Gaza is a prison camp, but those who control the prison are Hamas.	I'm totally against the double standards of a nation which fights the Taliban but is showing its solidarity with their brothers, Hamas . 
noLabel	This learned helplessness can be explained as the ideology that there is no way for one to get out of poverty and so in order to make the best of their situation one must live in the moment and experience what they can when they can.	This leads to people spending money right as they get it and teaches children to do the same which also creates a trap for children keeping them and their children in poverty.
noLabel	According to the Nuclear Threat Initiative, Iran is known to possess cultures of the many biological agents for legitimate scientific purposes which have been weaponised by other nations in the past, or could theoretically be weaponised.	Although they do not allege that Iran has attempted to weaponise them, Iran possesses sufficient biological facilities to potentially do so .
noLabel	A counter-argument is that the U.S. controlled the weapons in storage within the NATO states, and that no transfer of the weapons or control over them was intended "unless and until a decision were made to go to war, at which the treaty would no longer be controlling", so there is no breach of the NPT.	These agreements were disclosed to a few of the states, including the Soviet Union, negotiating the treaty, but most of the states that signed the NPT in 1968 would not have known about these agreements and interpretations at that time . 
noLabel	Its enforcement provisions are contained in section 2000e-5 of Title 42, and its regulations and guidelines are contained in Title 29 of the Code of Federal Regulations, part 1614 .	Persons wishing to file suit under Title VII and/or the ADA must exhaust their administrative remedies by filing an administrative complaint with the EEOC prior to filing their lawsuit in court . 
noLabel	Societies and groups can differ in the extent to which they are based upon predominantly "self-regarding" (individualistic, and arguably self-interested) rather than "other-regarding" (group-oriented, and group, or society-minded) behavior.	Ruth Benedict made a distinction, relevant in this context, between "guilt" societies (e.g., medieval Europe) with an "internal reference standard", and "shame" societies (e.g., Japan, "bringing shame upon one's ancestors") as opposed to an "external reference standard", where people look to their peers for feedback on whether an action is "acceptable" or not (also known as "group-think"). 
noLabel	A systematic review for Department of Health (United Kingdom) conducted by the National Collaborating Centre for Mental Health found that abortion "did not raise" mental health risks.	The review found that rates of common disorders were higher in women with unwanted pregnancies, but abortion did not alter that .
noLabel	School officials said that the football facilities were built through bond issues approved by voters and that money for drug testing would have to come out of an annual district budget that is stretched to the limit.	This year, the district sent $130 million, or 32 percent of its budget, to the state for use by less affluent school districts, officials said, and next year Plano faces a $15 million budget cut.
noLabel	I have always been committed to the principle that it is not the duty of government to bail out and reward those who act irresponsibly, whether they are big banks or small borrowers.	Government assistance to the banking system should be based solely on preventing systemic risk that would endanger the entire financial system and the economy. 
noLabel	Iran attacked and damaged the site on September 30, 1980, with two F-4 Phantoms, shortly after the outbreak of the Iran-Iraq War .	At the onset of the war, Yehoshua Saguy, director of the Israeli Military Intelligence Directorate, publicly urged the Iranians to bomb the reactor .
noLabel	On the night of 10 August 1792, insurgents and popular militias, supported by the revolutionary Paris Commune, assailed the Tuileries Palace and massacred the Swiss Guards who were assigned for the protection of the king.	The royal family ended up prisoners and a rump session of the Legislative Assembly suspended the monarchy; little more than a third of the deputies were present, almost all of them Jacobins . 
noLabel	War is a state of prolonged violent large-scale conflict involving two or more groups of people, usually under the auspices of government.	War is fought as a means of resolving territorial and other conflicts, as war of aggression to conquer territory or loot resources, in national self-defense, or to suppress attempts of part of the nation to secede from it. 
noLabel	As an alternative, Dollar proposes that aid be funneled more towards countries with “good” policy and less than optimal amounts of aid for their massive amounts of poverty.	With respect to “optimal amounts” Dollar calculated the marginal productivity of each additional dollar of foreign aid for the countries sampled, and saw that some countries had very high rates of marginal productivity (each dollar went further), while others [with particularly high amounts of aid, and lower levels of poverty] had low [and sometimes negative] levels of marginal productivity.
noLabel	In many cases it is possible for authorities to artificially control the composition of an electorate in order to produce a foregone result.	One way of doing this is to move a large number of voters into the electorate prior to an election, for example by temporarily assigning them land or lodging them in flophouses .
noLabel	In Nigeria there are a number of private universities, one of which is Igbinedion University, located in Okada, a town in Benin, Edo state.	The university is the first private university providing for the study of medicine, While Madonna University which has the art campus located at Okija and science campus in Elele is the first private university in Nigeria .
noLabel	In this way, power is produced at any given time as at any point of the planet as the sun or the wind is up or ocean waves and currents are stirring.	This option however is probably not possible in the short-term, as fossil fuel and nuclear power are still the main sources of energy on the mains electricity net and replacing them will not be possible overnight. 
noLabel	It has been claimed that the sharing of design processes, appropriate tools, and technical information enables more effective and rapid development of appropriate technologies for both industrialized and non-industrialized regions .	In addition, it is claimed that this sharing will require the appropriate-technology community to adopt open standards/licenses, document knowledge, and build on previous work .
noLabel	FBI agent Robert Hanssen was convicted under the Act for spying for the Soviets in the 1980s and Russia in the 1990s.	Another FBI agent, Earl Edwin Pitts, was arrested in 1996 under and for spying for the Soviet Union and later for the Russian Federation . 
noLabel	Elsewhere though, he asserts that deep ecology must be taken seriously in the debate about the relationship between humans and nature because it challenges the fundamental assumptions of Western philosophy.	Botkin has also criticized Næss's restatement and reliance upon the balance of nature idea and the perceived contradiction between his argument that all species are morally equal and his disparaging description of pioneering species.
noLabel	Undisturbed forests have a very low rate of soil loss, approximately 2 metric tons per square kilometer (6 short tons per square mile).	Deforestation generally increases rates of soil erosion, by increasing the amount of runoff and reducing the protection of the soil from tree litter.
noLabel	Muhammad Ali, known for his footwork and blindingly fast jab, could mix it up on the inside with fast flurries, using his large frame and fast handspeed for more power.	Naseem Hamed was primarily a slugger, favouring single, heavy punches, but his agility and reflexes allowed him to move like an out-fighter.
noLabel	However, on August 5, 2011, S&P made the decision to give a first-ever downgrade to U.S. sovereign debt, lowering the rating one notch to a "AA+" rating, with a negative outlook .	S&P stated that "[w]e lowered our long-term rating on the U.S. because we believe that the prolonged controversy over raising the statutory debt ceiling and the related fiscal policy debate indicate that further near-term progress containing the growth in public spending, especially on entitlements, or on reaching an 
noLabel	In 2011, there were efforts to "shift regulatory power from the executive branch to Congress" by requiring that any "major rule" which may cost the economy more than $100 million must be decided by Congress with an up-or-down vote .	But skeptics think that such a move proposed by Republican lawmakers could "usher in a lobbying bonanza from industry and other special-interest groups" to use campaign contributions to reshape the regulatory milieu .
noLabel	McChesney argues, that the government deserves constant vigilance when it comes to such regulations, but that it is certainly not "the only antidemocratic force in our society.	Corporations and the wealthy enjoy a power every bit as immense as that enjoyed by the lords and royalty of feudal times" and "markets are not value-free or neutral; they not only tend to work to the advantage of those with the most money, but they also by their very nature emphasize profit over all else.
noLabel	The European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction's latest systematic review from April 2010 did not find any evidence to support concerns that DCR might "encourage drug use, delay treatment entry or aggravate problems of local drug markets.	" Jürgen Rehm and Benedikt Fischer explained that while evidence show that DCR are successful, that "interpretation is limited by the weak designs applied in many evaluations, often represented by the lack of adequate control groups."
noLabel	In other words, every aspect of our capitalist economy is gendered and racialized; a theory and practice that ignores this is inherently flawed."	Feminist economist Eiman Zein-Elabdin takes a different route highlighting that racial differences should be examined along with gender differences because they have both been historically excluded from economic modelling and therefore fall equally within the theoretical conception of "feminist difference."
noLabel	Times v. United States is generally considered a victory for an extensive reading of the First Amendment, but as the Supreme Court ruled on whether the government had made a successful case for prior restraint, its decision did not void the Espionage Act or give the press unlimited freedom to publish classified documents.	Ellsberg and Russo were not acquitted of violating the Espionage Act; they were freed due to a mistrial from irregularities in the government's case . 
noLabel	Parties are obliged "when the circumstances so warrant" to use affirmative action policies for specific racial groups to guarantee "the full and equal enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms" .	However, these measures must be finite, and "shall in no case entail as a consequence the maintenance of unequal or separate rights for different racial groups after the objectives for which they were taken have been achieved" . 
noLabel	In a 9-0 decision, the Supreme Court extended the full protection of the First Amendment to the Internet in Reno v. ACLU, a decision which struck down portions of the 1996 Communications Decency Act, a law that prohibited "indecent" online communication (that is, non-obscene material protected by the First Amendment).	The court's decision extended the same Constitutional protections given to books, magazines, films, and spoken expression to materials published on the Internet.
noLabel	In 1943, the Allies created the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) to provide aid to areas liberated from Axis powers, including parts of Europe and China.	This included returning over seven million refugees, then commonly referred to as displaced persons or DPs, to their country of origin and setting up displaced persons camps for one million refugees who refused to be repatriated. 
noLabel	Moving towards energy sustainability will require changes not only in the way energy is supplied, but in the way it is used, and reducing the amount of energy required to deliver various goods or services is essential.	Opportunities for improvement on the demand side of the energy equation are as rich and diverse as those on the supply side, and often offer significant economic benefits . 
noLabel	According to some sources, the older man was expected to function as a kind of substitute father and role model to his junior partner; however, others believe it was reasonably certain that they had sexual relations (the exact nature of Spartan pederasty is not entirely clear) .	It is notable, however, that the only contemporary source with direct experience of the agoge, Xenophon, explicitly denies the sexual nature of the relationship  . 
noLabel	Hutchison's earmarks and appropriations have been criticized as pork barrel projects or pet projects by the non-partisan government watchdog group Citizens Against Government Waste.	CAGW recognized Hutchison's efforts by naming her "Porker of the Month" in October 2009, based on her extensive legislative history, in addition to her request for 149 such pork projects worth $1.6 billion in FY 2010 . 
noLabel	If the voters determine their preferences before the election and always vote directly consistent to them, they will emulate the Contingent vote and get the same results as if they were to use that system.	Therefore, in that model of voting behavior, the two-round system passes all criteria that the contingent vote passes, and fails all criteria the contingent vote fails. 
noLabel	In this quote, Story describes a militia as the "natural defence of a free country," both against foreign foes, domestic revolts and usurpation by rulers.	The book regards the militia as a "moral check" against both usurpation and the arbitrary use of power, while expressing distress at the growing indifference of the American people to maintaining such an organized militia, which could lead to the undermining of the protection of the Second Amendment . 
noLabel	Protectionists believe that infant industries must be protected in order to allow them to grow to a point where they can fairly compete with the larger mature industries established in foreign countries.	They believe that without this protection, infant industries will die before they reach a size and age where economies of scale, industrial infrastructure, and skill in manufacturing have progressed sufficiently allow the industry to compete in the global market.
noLabel	This sum itself may be all or a portion of the difference between the actual (inflated) payment to the company and the (lower) market-based price that would have been paid had the bidding been competitive.	Kickbacks are not limited to government officials; any situation in which people are entrusted to spend funds that do not belong to them are susceptible to this kind of corruption.
noLabel	Despite the slow rate of industrialization into the 19th century, many important changes were taking place in the agrarian economy because of innovations and the large population growth .	These innovations included government-sponsored programs of enclosure, aggressive exploitation of agricultural lands, and the introduction of new crops such as the potato .
noLabel	Raymond became a prominent voice in the open source movement and co-founded the Open Source Initiative in 1998, taking on the self-appointed role of ambassador of open source to the press, business and public.	The internal white paper by Frank Hecker that led to the release of the Mozilla (then Netscape) source code in 1998 cited The Cathedral and the Bazaar as "independent validation" of ideas proposed by Eric Hahn and Jamie Zawinski .
noLabel	Protecting the British tradition of independent public service has led to the situation where the apparent introduction of separation of powers has led only to the transfer of powers from one elected branch (the council) to another (the mayor).	Local authorities in Britain remain administered by a permanent staff of chief officers led by a chief executive, who are politically neutral bureaucrats.
noLabel	While the symbolism of the cigarette, pipe and cigar respectively were consolidated in the late 19th century, it was not until the 20th century that artists began to use it fully; a pipe would stand for thoughtfulness and calm; the cigarette symbolized modernity, strength and youth, but also nervous anxiety; the cigar was a sign of authority, wealth and power.	The decades following World War II, during the apex of smoking when the practice had still not come under fire by the growing anti-smoking movement, a cigarette casually tucked between the lips represented the young rebel, epitomized in actors like Marlon Brando and James Dean or mainstays of advertising like the Marlboro Man.
noLabel	Yet a few charter schools also attract large amounts of interest and money from private sources such as the Gates Foundation, the Walton Family Foundation, the Broad Foundation, and the NewSchools Venture Fund .	Sometimes private businesses and foundations, such as the Ameritech Corporation in Michigan and the Annenberg Fund in California, provide support . 
noLabel	Circumcision is part of initiation rites in some African, Pacific Islander, and Australian aboriginal traditions in areas such as Arnhem Land, where the practice was introduced by Makassan traders from Sulawesi in the Indonesian Archipelago .	Circumcision ceremonies among certain Australian aboriginal societies are noted for their painful nature, including subincision for some aboriginal peoples in the Western Desert .
noLabel	In hindsight, incidents which had been interpreted as the deliberate targeting of civilians may have had other explanations, such as poor intelligence information.	Goldstone also praised Israel for investigating claims of war crimes while faulting Hamas for its failure to launch any investigations of its own forces.
noLabel	Ron Ben-Yishai, a veteran Israeli correspondent aboard the Israeli missile boat INS Nitzachon reported that the assessment was that the passengers would show "light resistance and possibly minor violence".	The soldiers were armed with paintball guns, stun grenades, tasers, and pistols as sidearms, which were attached to their backs .
noLabel	The stance described is considered the "textbook" stance and fighters are encouraged to change it around once its been mastered as a base.	Case in point, many fast fighters have their hands down and have almost exaggerated footwork, while brawlers or bully fighters tend to slowly stalk their opponents. 
noLabel	The power of the purse has also been used to compel the U.S. states to pass laws, in cases where Congress does not have the desire or constitutional power to make it a federal matter.	The most well-known example of this is regarding the drinking age, where Congress passed a law to withhold federal funds for highways in any state that did not raise the age to 21.
noLabel	Others, including local officials, play down the negative impacts of corruption, and local cadres frown on anticorruption efforts for three reasons: a preoccupation with rooting out corruption may lead to cautiousness about new practices; corruption may act as a "lubricant" to "loosen up" the bureaucracy and facilitate commercial exchanges; and thirdly, corruption is a necessary trade-off and inevitable part of the process of reform and opening up .	They argue that the destructiveness of corruption in the Chinese context helps transfer or reallocate power from officials, perhaps even enabling the rise of a "new system" and acting as a driving force for reform . 
noLabel	In 2005, before Palin was elected governor, Congress passed an omnibus spending bill that contained a $442-million earmark for constructing two Alaska bridges.	The Gravina Island Bridge, intended to provide a link between the Ketchikan airport on Gravina Island and the city of Ketchikan at a cost of $233 million in Federal grant money, received nationwide attention as a symbol of pork-barrel spending.
noLabel	They argue that Israeli governments have long used targeted killings as a last resort, when there were no peaceful options for bringing suspected terrorists to account .	In a 2010 article in Infinity Journal, it was argued that targeted killings are a strategy that entails "limited, force in support of policy" and that the strategy has proven to work, albeit within specific contexts .
noLabel	" In Iran, Dr. Paula Drew states that “circumcision, which formerly celebrated the onset of manhood, has for many years now been more customarily performed at the age of 5 or 6 for children born at home, and at two days old for those born in a medical setting.…By puberty, all Muslim Iranian boys must be circumcised if they are to participate fully in religious activities.” Kamyar et al.	describe circumcision as an "obligatory custom" and note that it is not necessary for the circumciser to be a Muslim . 
noLabel	Rather than focusing on the economic or material benefits associated with nature, humans began to appreciate the value in the nature itself and the need to protect pristine wilderness.	By the middle of the 20th century countries such as the United States, Canada, and Britain understood this appreciation and instigated laws and legislation in order to ensure that the most fragile and beautiful environments would be protected for generations to come. 
noLabel	They chanted slogans such as "Down with USA", "Down with Israel", "Dutch Ambassador to Iran Should Be Expelled", and called for the closure of Royal Dutch Shell and Philips.	A spokesperson for the protesters said that the release of the film was a ploy by imperialists to harm Muslim countries, insult the prophet Muhammed, and stage a Crusade, adding: "We will never remain silent in the face of ploys by domestic or foreign enemies .
noLabel	Other British golfers to have appeared in the top 10 in the 2000s are Paul Casey, Ian Poulter and Justin Rose, all from England; and Graeme McDowell and Rory McIlroy of Northern Ireland.	McDowell also became the first European to win the U.S. Open in 40 years when he won that event in 2010, and McIlroy won that tournament the following year with a record-setting performance. 
noLabel	The argument the Master Settlement Agreement created a cartel of the major U.S. cigarette makers, allowing them to charge "supracompetitive" prices for their product, was rejected by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in 2007 .	The appellate court concluded that the Plaintiffs had not alleged sufficient facts to show that the MSA and two related state laws violated the federal Sherman Act .
noLabel	An example of this occurred in November 1988 on the show Blah Blah Blah, when one episode which featured full frontal male nudity by the musical group Lubricated Goat.	The incident was repeatedly upwardly referred throughout the ABC management hierarchy, and after heated debate, some footage was edited from the final show. 
noLabel	It has been suggested that some transgenic plants may some day be developed which would allow for maintaining or increasing yields while requiring fewer fossil-fuel-derived inputs than conventional crops .	The possibility of success of these programs is questioned by ecologists and economists concerned with unsustainable GMO practices such as terminator seeds . 
noLabel	One of the first projects of WWF was assisting in the creation of the Charles Darwin Research Foundation which aided in the protection of diverse range of unique species existing on the Galápagos’ Islands, Ecuador.	It was also a WWF grant that helped with the formation of the College of African Wildlife Management in Tanzania which today focuses on teaching a wide range of protected area management skills in areas such as ecology, range management and law enforcement. 
noLabel	Kelli White, the world champion sprinter at 100 and 200 meters, has been accused by international track officials of using the narcolepsy drug modafinil as a stimulant.	She faces a loss of both gold medals from the world championships last August in Paris, as well as $120,000 in prize money.
noLabel	It is common for popular sports to attract large broadcast audiences, leading to rival broadcasters bidding large amounts of money for the rights to show certain fixtures.	The football World Cup attracts a global television audience of hundreds of millions; the 2006 final alone attracted an estimated worldwide audience of well over 700 million and the 2007 Cricket World Cup attracted about 2.3 Billion worldwide viewers. 
noLabel	A report by the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA) and Global Witness estimated that 200 rosewood trees were being cut down a day in 2009.	With prices at around $3000 per cubic meter or $11 per kilogram, the wood was worth nearly ten times as much as oak or maple . 
noLabel	Website operators that ethically use online advertising typically use a small number of advertisements that are not intended to distract or irritate the user, and do not detract from the design and layout of their websites .	Many website owners deal directly with companies that want to place ads, meaning that the website linked to by the advertisement is legitimate. 
noLabel	In January 2012, 22 South Korean womens' groups made a plea for a nuclear free future, saying they believe nuclear weapons and power reactors "threaten our lives, the lives of our families and all living creatures".	The women said they feel an enormous sense of crisis after the Fukushima nuclear disaster in March 2011, which demonstrated the destructive power of radiation in the loss of human lives, environmental pollution, and contamination of food . 
noLabel	Physicists say that if Iran were to choose to develop a nuclear weapon, it would have to withdraw from the International Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and expel International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors from the country .	George Friedman, head of the global intelligence company Stratfor, has said Iran is "decades away" from developing any credible nuclear-arms capacity . 
noLabel	In the Republic of Ireland, most secondary schools start summer holidays in the last week of May or first week in June and don't return until the first week in September.	They also receive around two weeks for Easter and around another two weeks for Christmas and New Year, as well as another week around Halloween (called "Mid-Term") and another few days (usually 1 or 2) for St. Patrick's Day.
noLabel	In 1974-1975 Allen extended his analysis to the colonial period with his ground-breaking "Class Struggle and the Origin of Racial Slavery: The Invention of the White Race" in 1974/1975 , which ultimately grew into his seminal two-volume "The Invention of the White Race" in 1994 and 1997 .	Allen’s work consistently argued that “white” privileges were not only not in the interests of direct victims of white supremacy, they were also not in the class interests of working-class European-Americans and that they should be struggled against and “repudiated” by European-Americans. 
noLabel	Rousseau wrote in his book Emile: or, On Education that all children are perfectly designed organisms, ready to learn from their surroundings so as to grow into virtuous adults, but due to the malign influence of corrupt society, they often fail to do so.	Rousseau advocated an educational method which consisted of removing the child from society—for example, to a country home—and alternately conditioning him through changes to environment and setting traps and puzzles for him to solve or overcome. 
noLabel	The ATF began Project Gunrunner as a pilot project in Laredo, Texas, in 2005 and expanded it as a national initiative in 2006.	Project Gunrunner is also part of the Department of Justice’s broader Southwest Border Initiative, which seeks to reduce cross-border drug and firearms trafficking and the high level of violence associated with these activities on both sides of the border . 
noLabel	If a complaint is issued about material on the Internet, the ACMA is empowered to examine the material under the guidelines for film and video.	If it is found that a) the material would be classified R18+ or X18+, and the site does not have an adult verification system, or b) the material would be refused classification: . 
noLabel	With Burma preoccupied by the Chinese threat, Siam recovered its territories by 1770, and went on to capture Lan Na by 1776.	Burma and Siam went to war until 1855, but all resulted in a stalemate, exchanging Tenasserim (to Burma) and Lan Na (to Siam).
noLabel	The Bowl Championship Series (BCS) is a selection system designed, through polls and computer statistics, to determine a #1 and #2 team in the NCAA Division-1 Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS).	After the final polls, the two top teams are chosen to play in the BCS National Championship Game which determines The BCS National Champion, but not the champion for independent voting systems(most notably the AP poll).
noLabel	Cordell Hull, the U.S. secretary of state until 1944, believed this, and argued that as trade barriers dovetail with war, so free trade does with peace.	The post war consensus expressed at Bretton Woods was that government coordination was necessary to prevent trade wars and competitive devaluations, to ensure free trade and peace.
noLabel	 According to the Catholic Church in Dignitatis Humanae, "the human person has a right to religious freedom," which is described as "immunity from coercion in civil society.	" This principle of religious freedom "leaves untouched traditional Catholic doctrine on the moral duty of men and societies toward the true religion.
noLabel	Human rights groups such as Amnesty International organises campaigns to protect those arrested and or incarcerated as a prisoner of conscience because of their conscientious beliefs, particularly concerning intellectual, political and artistic freedom of expression and association .	In legislation, a conscience clause is a provision in a statute that excuses a health professional from complying with the law (for example legalising surgical or pharmaceutical abortion) if it is incompatible with religious or conscientious beliefs .
noLabel	In addition, academic institutions generally have an overall administrative structure (usually including a president and several deans) which is controlled by no single department, discipline, or field of thought.	Also, the tenure system, a major component of academic employment and research, serves to ensure that academia is relatively protected from political and financial pressures on thought.
noLabel	September 23, 1979: Almost 200,000 people attended the nation's largest antinuclear rally to date, staged on the then-empty north end of the Battery Park City landfill in New York City .	The New York rally was held in conjunction with a series of nightly “No Nukes” concerts given at Madison Square Garden from September 19 through 23 by Musicians United for Safe Energy. 
noLabel	According to Karl Marx, unemployment is inherent within the unstable capitalist system and periodic crises of mass unemployment are to be expected.	The function of the proletariat within the capitalist system is to provide a "reserve army of labour" that creates downward pressure on wages.
noLabel	The Colombian and Mexican cartels have discovered that it is much easier to smuggle large loads into West Africa and then break that up into smaller shipments to Europe - mostly Spain, the United Kingdom and France .	Higher demand for cocaine in Western Europe in addition to North American interdiction campaigns has led to dramatically increased trafficking in the region: nearly 50% of all non-U.S. bound cocaine, or about 13% of all global flows, is now smuggled through West Africa .
noLabel	Researchers surveyed 1,520 children, ages 9–10, with a four year follow up and discovered a positive correlation between obesity and low self esteem in the four year follow up.	They also discovered that decreased self esteem led to 19% of obese children feeling sad, 48% of them feeling bored, and 21% of them feeling nervous.
noLabel	At the beginning of the twentieth century around 420,000 square kilometres (35% of Ethiopia’s land) was covered by trees but recent research indicates that forest cover is now less than 14.2% due to population growth.	Despite the growing need for forested lands, lack of education among locals has led to a continuing decline of forested areas .
noLabel	Since 1977 state elections in Louisiana have used a jungle primary system, which in Louisiana has become known as "open" primary, where all the candidates for an office run together in one election.	If someone gets a majority, that individual wins outright; otherwise, the top two candidates, irrespective of partisan affiliation, meet in a runoff election.
noLabel	Data aggregated and analyzed by Robert B. Reich, Thomas Piketty, and Emmanuel Saez and released in a New York Times article written by Bill Marsh shows that real wages for production and non-supervisory workers, which account for 82% of the U.S. workforce, increased by 100% from 1947 to 1979 but then increased by only 8% from 1979–2009.	Their data also shows that the bottom fifth experience 122% growth rate in wages from 1947 to 1979 but then experienced a negative growth rate of 4% in their real wages from 1979–2009.
noLabel	[Hoover] asked these men why their companies didn't sit down with Gompers and try to work out an amicable relationship with organized labor.	Such a relationship, in Hoover's opinion, would be a bulwark against the spread of radicalism reflected in the rise of the "Wobblies," the Industrial Workers of the World.
noLabel	The new intellectual forces spread to urban centres across Europe, notably England, Scotland, the German states, the Netherlands, Russia, Italy, Austria, and Spain, then jumped the Atlantic into the European colonies, where it influenced Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, among many others, and played a major role in the American Revolution.	The political ideals influenced the American Declaration of Independence, the United States Bill of Rights, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, and the Polish–Lithuanian Constitution of May 3, 1791 .
noLabel	The colonization effort resulted from a mixture of motives with its founder Henry Clay stating; "unconquerable prejudice resulting from their color, they never could amalgamate with the free whites of this country.	It was desirable, therefore, as it respected them, and the residue of the population of the country, to drain them off" . 
noLabel	In year 12, however, the term ends in November; for those who go on to university, the term starts in March.	There is a two-week autumn holiday in April (often incorporating the Easter public holidays), and another two weeks in late June or early July.
noLabel	This report documents the results of a short email-mediated study by The MITRE Corporation on the use of free and open-source software (FOSS) in the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD).	FOSS is distinctive because it gives users the right to run, copy, distribute, study, change, and improve it as they see fit, without having to ask permission from or make fiscal payments to any external group or person.
noLabel	Left unchecked, the urchins destroyed the shallow water kelp communities that supported the Steller's Sea Cow's diet and hastened their demise .	The sea otter is a keystone species because the coexistence of many ecological associates in the kelp beds relied upon otters for their survival.
noLabel	The Responsible Education About Life Act was introduced by Senator Frank Lautenberg (D-NJ) and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Christopher Shays (R-CT) to support age-appropriate sexual education.	This program is focused to provide teenagers with science-based information on sexual health, so that they can make a sound decision regarding their sex-life . 
noLabel	Researchers Sharon A. Jackson, Roger T. Anderson, Norman J. Johnson and Paul D. Sorlie found that, after adjustment for family income, mortality risk increased with increasing minority residential segregation among Blacks aged 25 to 44 years and non-Blacks aged 45 to 64 years.	In most age/race/gender groups, the highest and lowest mortality risks occurred in the highest and lowest categories of residential segregation, respectively.
noLabel	Inclusive democracy is a political theory and political project that aims for direct democracy in all fields of social life: political democracy in the form of face-to-face assemblies which are confederated, economic democracy in a stateless, moneyless and marketless economy, democracy in the social realm, i.e.self-management in places of work and education, and ecological democracy which aims to reintegrate society and nature.	The theoretical project of inclusive democracy emerged from the work of political philosopher Takis Fotopoulos in "Towards An Inclusive Democracy" and was further developed in the journal Democracy & Nature' and its successor The International Journal of Inclusive Democracy. 
noLabel	In the 21st century, democracy has become such a popular method of reaching decisions that its application beyond politics to other areas such as entertainment, food and fashion, consumerism, urban planning, education, art, literature, science and theology has been criticized as "the reigning dogma of our time" .	The argument is that applying a populist or market-driven approach to art and literature for example, means that innovative creative work goes unpublished or unproduced.
noLabel	The pupil's total score, which is used for application to gymnasium, the secondary schools, is calculated by taking the pupil's 16 best subjects and numerically adding them together, with G = 10, VG = 15 and MVG = 20, yielding a maximum possible score of 320.	It is normal for a pupil to have 17 or more grades, as most study a third language - traditionally German or French, but in recent years Spanish has increased in popularity. 
noLabel	Judith Lichtenberg has outlined conditions in which freedom of the press may constrain freedom of speech, for example where the media suppresses information or stifles the diversity of voices inherent in freedom of speech.	Lichtenberg argues that freedom of the press is simply a form of property right summed up by the principle "no money, no voice" .
noLabel	In Paviken, an important centre of trade in the Baltic region during the 9th and 10th century, remains have been found of a large Viking Age harbour with shipbuilding yards and handicraft industries.	Between 800 and 1000, trade brought an abundance of silver to Gotland, and according to some scholars, the Gotlanders of this era hoarded more silver than the rest of the population of Scandinavia combined . 
noLabel	By better understanding the nature of the highly complex mixture of compounds, including naphthenic acids, it may be possible to monitor rivers for leachate and also to remove toxic components.	Such identification of individual acids has for many years proved to be impossible but a recent breakthrough in analysis has begun to reveal what is in the oil sands produced waters . 
noLabel	While all components mentioned above are necessary, the portion of education pertaining to the variety of skills needed to build and maintain the infrastructure of a developing (moving out of poverty) society: building trades; plumbing; electrician; well-drilling; farm and transport mechanical skills (and others) are clearly needed in large numbers of individuals, if the society is to move out of poverty or subsistence.	Yet, many well-developed western economies are moving strongly away from the essential apprenticeships and skill training which affords a clear vocational path out of modern urban poverty.
noLabel	The BCS National Championship Game was initially rotated among the four participating bowl games: the (Rose Bowl, Orange Bowl, Fiesta Bowl, and Sugar Bowl).	However, beginning with the 2006 season, the BCS National Championship Game became a separate bowl game unto itself, following New Year's Day.
noLabel	With Confederation, Canada became a self-governing nation which was considered a kingdom in its own right, though it remained subordinate to the United Kingdom; thus, Victoria was monarch of Canada, but not sovereign of it.	It was not until the passing of the Statute of Westminster that Canada was considered to be under a distinct Canadian Crown, separate to that of the British, and not until 1953 that the Canadian monarch, at the time Elizabeth II, was titled by Canadian law as Queen of Canada. 
noLabel	Causes of stress during gestation, such as maternal malnutrition generally appear to increase fetal deaths particularly among males, resulting in a lower boy to girl ratio at birth.	Also, higher incidence of Hepatitis B virus in populations is believed to decrease the male to female sex ratio, while some unexplained environmental health hazards are thought to have the opposite effect . 
noLabel	Thucydides wrote:Suppose the city of Sparta to be deserted, and nothing left but the temples and the ground-plan, distant ages would be very unwilling to believe that the power of the Lacedaemonians was at all equal to their fame.	Their city is not built continuously, and has no splendid temples or other edifices; it rather resembles a group of villages, like the ancient towns of Hellas, and would therefore make a poor show . 
noLabel	Their purpose was to bring together software developers and contractors from the military to discover new ideas for reuse and collaboration.	Overall, open-source software in the military is an intriguing idea that has potential drawbacks but they are not enough to offset the advantages . 
noLabel	The principal writings of Thomas Hobbes appeared between 1640 and 1651&mdash;during and immediately following the war between forces loyal to King Charles I and those loyal to Parliament.	In his own words, Hobbes' reflection began with the idea of "giving to every man his own," a phrase he drew from the writings of Cicero.
noLabel	Not long ago, human growth hormone was used by only a handful of players, players and baseball officials said, but its use is increasing.	Several players and executives estimated that as many as 20 percent of major leaguers might be using hGH, but it is impossible to know with any certainty.
noLabel	In 2003, the European Union halted the branding of cigarettes as "light" or "mild", saying that this misleads consumers about the dangers of smoking.	Stark health warnings such as "Smoking Kills" must now cover at least 30 percent of the front of each packet and 40 percent of the back, and an even greater area where messages are printed in more than one national language . 
noLabel	The reliance on local funding sources has led to a long history of court challenges about how states fund their schools.	These challenges have relied on interpretations of state constitutions after a U.S. Supreme Court ruling that school funding was not a matter of the U.S. Constitution (San Antonio Independent School District v. Rodriguez, 411 U.S. 1 (1973)).
noLabel	The practice of cyber-dissidence and activism per se, that is, in its modern-day form, may have been inaugurated by Dr. Daniel Mengara, a Gabonese scholar and activist living in political exile in New Jersey in the United States.	In 1998, he created a Website in French whose name Bongo Doit Partir  (Bongo Must Go) was clearly indicative of its purpose: it encouraged a revolution against the then 29-year-old regime of Omar Bongo in Gabon.
noLabel	When the roads required by the clearcutting were factored in, the increase in slide activity appeared to be about 5 times greater compared to nearby forested areas .	Clearcutting can also lead to an increased possibility of rapid runoff, loss of economic sustainability in that no timber products are available for a long time after clearcutting, loss of habitat for some wildlife species, unattractive visual effect, greater possibility of unwanted shrub and grasses becoming established, as well as a decrease in property values; diminished recreation, hunting, and fishing opportunities .
noLabel	Also, a U.S. review, "Emerging Answers", by the National Campaign To Prevent Teenage Pregnancy examined 250 studies of sex education programs .	The conclusion of this review was that "the overwhelming weight of evidence shows that sex education that discusses contraception does not increase sexual activity".
noLabel	They also are one of the only pieces of hardware to allow multiple hookups (such as with SLI or CrossFire graphics cards).	CD- and DVD-ROMs were developed for mass distribution of media in general, however the ability to store more information on cheap easily distributable media was instrumental in driving their ever higher speeds. 
noLabel	And some of these groups often objects to teaching of contraception because they feel that teaching of contraception for school children presume premarital sex from the outset and somewhat imply that such things are morally permissible.	These organization advocate abstinence-only sex education because it is the only approach they find acceptable and in accordance with their religious teachings. 
noLabel	However, Morris's views have been strongly criticised by Professor Basil Donovan who argues that the protection from HIV argued by Morris is not an accurate depiction of the HIV research .	David Forbes, chair of the pediatrics and child health policy and advocacy committee of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians has stated that Morris has not been asked to review the college's circumcision policy and is not a member of the college . 
noLabel	He says that to compensate for eliminating the "hidden tax" of monetary inflation, Congress and the president would instead have to raise taxes or cut government services, either of which could be politically damaging to their reputations.	He states that the "inflation tax" is a tax on the poor, because the Federal Reserve prints more money which subsidizes select industries, while poor people pay higher prices for goods as more money is placed in circulation . 
noLabel	The Edicts of Ashoka issued by King Ashoka the Great (269 – 231 BCE), a Buddhist, declared ethnic and religious tolerance.	His Edict XII, engraved in stone, stated: "The faiths of others all deserve to be honored for one reason or another.
noLabel	The Florentine architect Filippo Brunelleschi received a three-year patent for a barge with hoisting gear, that carried marble along the Arno River in 1421 .	In 1449, King Henry VI granted the first English patent with a license of 20 years to John of Utynam for introducing the making of colored glass to England . 
noLabel	The form and consequences of conformity influence should undergo significant changes given the interposition of a medium that reduces the social presence of participants .	Social presence is defined as the degree of salience of the other person in the interaction, or the degree to which the medium conveys some of the person's presence .
noLabel	According to a twenty-year ATF veteran, Jay Wachtel, letting guns "walk" was done in the past in a controlled manner that involved surveillance and eventual seizure of the weapons .	According to ATF field agents involved in Operation Fast and Furious, under Project Gunrunner "ATF agents were trained to interdict guns and prevent criminals from obtaining them" and not to allow guns to walk and then disappear .
noLabel	Depending on the program, these donations can either go to a public school or to a School Tuition Organization (STO), or both.	The donations that go to public schools are often used to help pay for after-school programs, schools trips, or school supplies.
noLabel	Further, Mahmood Mamdani in Good Muslim, Bad Muslim suggests that the imposition of Western cultural norms, democracy and Christianity to name only two, has historically resulted in nationalist violence; however, Appiah has implied that democracy is a pre-requisite for cosmopolitan intervention in developing nations (Kindness to Strangers 169) .	Cosmopolitanism, in these instances, appears to be a new form of colonization: the powerful exploit the weak and the weak eventually fight back. 
noLabel	Optimal unemployment has also been defended as an environmental tool to brake the constantly accelerated growth of the GDP to maintain levels sustainable in the context of resource constraints and environmental impacts .	However the tool of denying jobs to willing workers seems a blunt instrument for conserving resources and the environment&nbsp;— it reduces the consumption of the unemployed across the board, and only in the short term.
noLabel	In 1969 the song "Melting Pot" was released by the UK band Blue Mink and charted at #3 in the UK Singles Chart .	The lyrics espouse how the world should become one big melting pot where different races and religions are to be mixed, 'churning out coffee coloured people by the score' referring to the possible pigmentation of children after such Miscegenation. 
noLabel	A key player who is credited to saving billions of lives because of his revolutionary work in developing new agricultural techniques is Norman Borlaug.	His transformative work brought high-yield crop varieties to developing countries and earned him an unofficial title as the father of the Green Revolution.
noLabel	The National Physical Activity Guidelines are a set of guidelines set up by the Australian government due to the increase of obesity within the Australian Nation, and due to the increasing medical bills from obesity related diseases such as Heart Disease, Congestive Heart Failure, Strokes and other deadly diseases.	The Australian Government has also put in many exercise related plans such as the Governor's 30 Day Family Challenge and the many fun runs.
noLabel	An early British opponent of circumcision was Herbert Snow, who wrote a short book called The barbarity of circumcision as a remedy for congenital abnormality in 1890 .	But as late as 1936, L. E. Holt, an author of pediatric textbooks, advocated male and female circumcision as a treatment for masturbation . 
noLabel	In fact, public employees without collective bargaining rights frequently have more protection against arbitrary and unjust employer action than do private employees with such rights .	The reality of collective bargaining is that it is essentially a bilateral process, whereas public policymaking is a multilateral process accessible to all taxpayers on equal terms .
noLabel	The American Jobs Act was written by the Obama Administration and unveiled in a high-profile speech by the President before a joint session of Congress on September 8th, 2011.	The Act includes $447 billion over ten years to pay for temporary stimulus spending, new job training programs, unemployment insurance, and temporary tax reductions.
noLabel	Therefore, the period of détente was characterized by a general reduction in the tension between the Soviet Union and the United States and a thawing of the Cold War, lasting from the late 1960s until the start of the 1980s.	The doctrine of mutual nuclear deterrence characterized relations between the United States and the Soviet Union during this period, and present relations with Russia. 
noLabel	They also agreed that future monarchs should no longer be prohibited from marrying a Catholic - a law which dates from the Act of Settlement 1701, following the Glorious Revolution of 1688.	However, since the monarch is also the Supreme Governor of the Church of England, the law which prohibits a Roman Catholic from acceding to the throne - which originated as a result of the English and Scots' distrust of Roman Catholicism during the late 17th century - would remain. 
noLabel	One of the problems of biomass is that material directly combusted in cook stoves produces pollutants, leading to severe health and environmental consequences, although improved cook stove programmes are alleviating some of these effects.	First-generation biomass technologies can be economically competitive, but may still require deployment support to overcome public acceptance and small-scale issues .
noLabel	A major feature of Forest Day was four parallel panel discussions focusing on cross-cutting themes related to forests and climate change.	These well-attended discussions examined such issues as setting baselines and methodological challenges in estimating forest carbon; markets and governance challenges associated with Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+); adaptation to climate change; and equity-efficiency trade-offs. 
noLabel	There are numerous protected areas in all States and Territories that have been created to protect and preserve Australia's unique ecosystems.	Protected areas include national parks and other reserves, as well as 64 wetlands which are registered under the Ramsar Convention and 16 World Heritage Sites.
noLabel	Opposition to the absorption of million of immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe was especially strong among eugenicists such as scientists Madison Grant and Lothrop Stoddard, who believed in the "racial" superiority of Americans of Northern European descent as member of the "Nordic race", and therefore demanded immigration restrictions to stop a "degeneration" of America's white racial "stock".	They believed that complete cultural assimilation of the immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe was not a solution to the problem of immigration because intermarriage with these immigrants would endanger the racial purity of Anglo-America.
noLabel	It followed the second report of a Committee of Independent Experts, established to monitor the domestic investigations into violations committed during the conflict, which was submitted to the Human Rights Council on 18 March 2011.	The report concurred with Amnesty International’s assessment that – more than 18 months since the UN Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict documented crimes under international law committed by both sides – the Israeli authorities and the Hamas de facto administration have failed to conduct investigations meeting the required international standards of independence, impartiality, thoroughness, effectiveness and promptness.
noLabel	In doing this the parents do not pay any tax or national insurance on the amount contributed to the childcare vouchers scheme up to specified limits.	Due to this tax efficiency the childcare voucher scheme has limits in place, after which you would pay for childcare in the usual taxable fashion. 
noLabel	However, monarchists argue that immigrants who left unstable republics and have arrived in Australia since 1945 welcomed the social and political stability that they found in Australia under a constitutional monarchy.	Further, some Aborigines such as former Senator Neville Bonner, said a republican president would not "care one jot more for my people" . 
noLabel	Facebook and Twitter are valuable for their large audiences and wide use by activists in the Middle East and other volatile regions.	The reasons they will not join remain vague from spokespersons or entirely unspecified, but factors like the toughness of the independent auditing process or the lack of financial benefit may engender corporate reluctance .
noLabel	The Nagoya Protocol on Access & Benefit Sharing (ABS) was adopted on 29 October 2010 in Nagoya, Japan and will enter into force 90 days after the fiftieth instrument of ratification.	Its objective is the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from the utilization of genetic resources, thereby contributing to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity .
noLabel	In 1988, Lovins argued that improving energy efficiency can simultaneously ameliorate greenhouse warming, reduce acid rain and air pollution, save money, and avoid the problems of nuclear power.	Given the urgency of abating global warming, Lovins stated that we cannot afford to invest in nuclear power when those same dollars put into efficiency would displace far more carbon dioxide . 
noLabel	It has been noted that often interventions may leave at-risk children worse off then if there had never been an intervention.	This is due primarily to the fact that placing large groups of at risk children together only propagates delinquent or violent behavior.
noLabel	Harm-reduction policies were popularized in the late 1980s, although they began in the 1970s counter-culture where users were distributed cartoons explaining responsible drug use and consequences of irresponsible drug use .	Another issue is that the illegality of drugs in itself may also cause social and economic consequences for those using them — the drugs may be "cut" with adulturants and the purity varies wildly, making overdoses more likely — and legal regulation of drug production and distribution would alleviate these and other dangers of illegal drug use .
noLabel	Use of unofficially and officially recognized or controlled channels has been used as a means of alleviating the state of suppression (and associated existing errors and fallacies), such as protesting, demonstrating, striking, civil disobedience, or other similar actions to attempt to directly enact desired changes themselves.	Using formal channels against decisions, using internal procedures, bringing appeals to the appropriate committee or commission, and launching legal actions has also been used to enact desired changes.
noLabel	This is a 20th and 21st century phenomenon generated by the current custom of requiring a developer to provide subdivision infrastructure as a condition of development (DeGrove and Turner, 1991) .	Usually, the developer is required to set aside a certain percentage of the developed land for public use, including roads, parks and schools.
noLabel	This discussion took on a larger public character in the 1980s after NBC aired Special Bulletin, a television dramatization of a nuclear terrorist attack on the United States .	In 1986 a private panel of experts known as the International Task Force on the Prevention of Terrorism released a report urging all nuclear-armed states to beware the dangers of terrorism and work on equipping their nuclear arsenals with permissive action links.
noLabel	Territorially small members such as Singapore and Brunei were consciously fearful of force and coercive measures from much bigger neighbours like Indonesia and Malaysia.	"Through political dialogue and confidence building, no tension has escalated into armed confrontation among ASEAN member countries since its establishment more than three decades ago" . 
noLabel	The fall of the Berlin Wall brought with it a new political landscape, opened up travel routes long closed and meant the re-emergence of nationalities which had been submerged within the Soviet bloc.	For immigration officers at ports prior to 1989 the arrival of a person with an East German passport was a notable event which would involve the interest of Special Branch.
noLabel	Gun control opponents often cite the example of the Nazi regime, claiming that once the Nazis had taken and consolidated their power, they proceeded to implement gun control laws to disarm the population and wipe out the opposition, and the genocide of disarmed Jews, gypsies, and other "undesirables" followed .	Historians have pointed out that the preceding democratic Weimar Republic already had restrictive gun laws, which were actually liberalised by the Nazis when they came to power.
noLabel	The modern field of climate history suggests that the successive waves of Eurasian nomadic movement throughout history have had their origins in climatic cycles, which have expanded or contracted pastureland in Central Asia, especially Mongolia and the Altai.	People were displaced from their home ground by other tribes trying to find land that could be grazed by essential flocks, each group pushing the next further to the south and west, into the highlands of Anatolia, the Pannonian Plain, into Mesopotamia or southwards, into the rich pastures of China.
noLabel	Many of the exodus are from the Christian minority ethnic Chin people who say they have been persecuted by the junta for being Christians and non-ethnic Burmese.	Although they were initially welcomed in Mizoram after the 1988 military crackdown they now face threats of a pushback, as the Mizos (who are ethnic cousins of Chins) are now strongly opposing "unrestricted migration from the Chin State" for fear that they may one day be outnumbered by them . 
noLabel	According to a survey commissioned by NBC News and People magazine, 87% of 13- to 16-year-olds report having never had sexual intercourse, and 73% report having not been sexually intimate at all.	Three quarters of these respondents say they have not because they feel they are too young, and just as many say they have made a conscious decision not to . 
noLabel	The Obama administration stated that it preferred to allow children already enrolled in the program to finish their schooling while closing the program to new entrants.	However, its preference on this matter does not appear to be strong enough to prevent the President from signing the Bill . 
noLabel	A simple version of Condorcet is Minimax: if no option is undefeated, the option that is defeated by the fewest votes in its worst defeat wins.	Another simple method is Copeland's method, in which the winner is the option that wins the most pairwise contests, as in many round-robin tournaments. 
noLabel	Most constitutional monarchies employ a parliamentary system in which the monarch may have strictly ceremonial duties or may have reserve powers, depending on the constitution.	Under most modern constitutional monarchies there is also a prime minister who is the head of government and exercises effective political power.
noLabel	Until recently, scholars have generally agreed with international relations professor Abraham Lowenthal that U.S. attempts to export democracy have been "negligible, often counterproductive, and only occasionally positive.	" Other studies find U.S. intervention has had mixed results, and another by Hermann and Kegley has found that military interventions have improved democracy in other countries .
noLabel	UNHCR's mandate has gradually been expanded to include protecting and providing humanitarian assistance to what it describes as other persons "of concern," including internally-displaced persons (IDPs) who would fit the legal definition of a refugee under the 1951 Refugee Convention and 1967 Protocol, the 1969 Organization for African Unity Convention, or some other treaty if they left their country, but who presently remain in their country of origin.	UNHCR thus has missions in Colombia, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Serbia and Montenegro and Côte d'Ivoire to assist and provide services to IDPs. 
noLabel	Renewable resources, due to the amount of space they require, are often located in remote areas where there is a lower energy demand.	The current infrastructure would make transporting this energy to high demand areas, such as urban centers, highly inefficient and in some cases impossible.
noLabel	According to the American Medical Association (AMA), blood loss and infection are the most common complications, but most bleeding is minor and can be stopped by applying pressure .	A survey of circumcision complications by Kaplan in 1983 revealed that the rate of bleeding complications was between 0.1% and 35% . 
noLabel	"Eurabia is a geo-political reality envisaged in 1973 through a system of informal alliances between, on the one hand, the nine countries of the European Community (EC) which, enlarged, became the European Union (EU) in 1992 and on the other hand, the Mediterranean Arab countries.	The alliances and agreements were elaborated at the top political level of each EC country with the representative of the European Commission, and their Arab homologues with the Arab League's delegate.
noLabel	the U.S. Congressional Budget Office reported that federal government spending for 2004 was projected to be $2.293 trillion, or slightly less than 20% of the GDP.	Of that, $646.7 billion was for net interest, $486 billion for defense, $492 billion for Social Security, $473 billion for Medicare and Medicaid, $191 billion for various welfare programs, $136 billion for "retirement and disability" benefits, and $64 billion was projected to be spent elsewhere. 
noLabel	The commission of violent crime may form part of a criminal organisations 'tools' used to achieve criminogenic goals (for example, its threatening, authoritative, coercive, terror-inducing, or rebellious role), due to psychosocial factors (cultural conflict, aggression, rebellion against authority, access to illicit substances, counter-cultural dynamic), or may, in and of itself, be crime rationally chosen by individual criminals and the groups they form.	Assaults are used for coercive measures, to "rough up" debtors, competition or recruits, in the commission of robberies, in connection to other property offences, and as an expression of counter-cultural authority; violence is normalised within criminal organisations (in direct opposition to mainstream society) and the locations they control .
noLabel	EPO is a glycoprotein, or protein-carbohydrate compound, which is produced by the kidneys and circulates through the bloodstream, stimulating the bone marrow to produce red blood cells, which in turn carry oxygen to the muscles.	The drug is synthetically produced for use by patients with kidney disease, AIDS and cancer, according to the United States Olympic Committee handbook.
noLabel	Discrimination against rugby league players could verge on the petty - former Welsh international Fred Perrett was once excluded in lists of players who died in the First World War due to his 'defection' to the league code .	One Member of Parliament, David Hinchliffe, described it as "one of the longest (and daftest) grievances in history" with anyone over the age of 18 associated with rugby league being banned forever from rugby union .
noLabel	If we don't adopt this method, which is the right one, in France, it is not because we have more respect for foreigners than the English have.	It is quite simply that we have less for our own nationals, and that we detail a single official to the examination of passports where they assign four or five.
noLabel	Another exception is awards, so it is permitted to give a congressperson a plaque thanking him or her for support on a given issue .	Cash gifts payable by check only can only be made to campaign committees, not to a candidate personally or to his or her staff; it is not permitted to give cash or stock . 
noLabel	Deterrence theory holds that nuclear weapons are intended to deter other states from attacking with their nuclear weapons, through the promise of retaliation and possibly mutually assured destruction (MAD).	Nuclear deterrence can also be applied to an attack by conventional forces; for example, the doctrine of massive retaliation threatened to launch US nuclear weapons in response to Soviet attacks. 
noLabel	In 2006, publicly funded family planning services (Title X, medicaid, and state funds) helped women avoid 1.94 million unintended pregnancies, thus preventing about 860,000 unintended births and 810,000 abortions .	Without publicly funded family planning services, the number of unintended pregnancies and abortions in the United States would be nearly two-thirds higher among women overall and among teens; the number of unintended pregnancies among poor women would nearly double
noLabel	Since the combating of corruption also depends on cooperation between the State and society, the UNCAC places particular emphasis on the involvement of civil society and on the general reporting process through which the public administration reports to the people.	The requirements made for the public sector also apply to the private sector – it too is expected to adopt transparent procedures and codes of conduct .
noLabel	Most discussions on how higher education funding is determined have focused on the economic and demographic influences; however, according to a 2010 study on the relationship between politics and state funding many political factors influence higher education funding.	First, as the number of interest groups for higher education in a state grows, so does the amount of money given to higher education.
noLabel	Some organizations promote what they consider to be "sexual purity", which encompasses abstaining from not only intercourse before marriage, but also from sexual thoughts, sexual touching, pornography, and actions that are known to lead to sexual arousal.	Advocates of abstinence-only sex education object to comprehensive curricula which fail to teach moral behavior; they maintain that curricula should promote conventional (or conservative) morality as healthy and constructive, and that value-free knowledge of the body may lead to immoral, unhealthy and harmful practices. 
noLabel	Since the only way to remove an incompetent president is with the rather difficult policy of impeachment, it is possible for a marginally competent or incompetent president to stay in office for four to eight years and cause great mischief .	In recent years, there has been great attention to this issue given the presidency of George W. Bush, but there have been questions raised about the competency of Jimmy Carter in his handling of the Iran hostage crisis.
noLabel	He argues that intellectual property laws can actually hinder innovation, since competitors can be indefinitely discouraged from further research expenditures in the general area covered by the patent because the courts may hold their improvements as infringements on the previous patent, and the patent holder is discouraged from engaging in further research in this field because the privilege discourages his improvement of his invention for the entire period of the patent, with the assurance that no competitor can trespass on his domain .	Morris and Linda Tannehill propose that ideas in the form of inventions could be registered in a privately owned "data bank"; the inventor could then buy insurance against the theft and unauthorized commercial use of the invention, and the insurance company would guarantee to not only compensate the inventor for any losses suffered due to such infringement but to stop such unauthorized use .
noLabel	The authors reported that neonatal circumcision was associated with reduced risk of invasive penile cancer (OR 0.41; 95% CI 0.13–1.1) but not carcinoma in situ.	The association was reduced when only subjects with no history of phimosis were included, and the authors concluded that the protective effect of circumcision may be mediated in large part by phimosis . 
noLabel	Sometimes formal sex education is taught as a full course as part of the curriculum in junior high school or high school.	Other times it is only one unit within a more broad biology class, health class, home economics class, or physical education class.
noLabel	The Canadian Charter bears a number of similarities to the European Convention, specifically in relation to the limitations clauses contained in the European document .	Because of this similarity with European human rights law, the Supreme Court of Canada turns not only to the Constitution of the United States case law in interpreting the Charter, but also to European Court of Human Rights cases. 
noLabel	External costs are not a part of the investment and operation costs, and are paid by the tax payer and therefore by the public.	Examples of external costs for fossil fuel and nuclear electricity production are political and military securing of the access to these energy sources, costs of green house gase emissions, cleaning up of spilled oil, police operations during the transporting of nuclear wastes and other similar activities.
noLabel	The central uses of the term relate to particular issues of race, gender, disability, ethnicity, sexual preference, culture and worldviews, and encompass both the language in which issues are discussed and the viewpoints that are expressed.	Proponents of the view that differences in IQ test scores between blacks and whites are (primarily or largely) genetically determined state that criticism of these views is based on political correctness . 
noLabel	Bank Transparency is the notion that there is too much opacity in the valuation and evaluation of commercial banking assets, both from regulator and investor perspectives.	So-called "level III" assets and/or illiquid and structured debt securities caused great challenges during the last crisis from a valuation standpoint.
noLabel	The Korherr Report compiled by an SS statistician, gave a conservative total of 2,454,000 Jews deported to extermination camps or killed by the Einsatzgruppen.	The complete status reports of the Einsatzgruppen death squads were found in the archives of the Gestapo when it was searched by the U.S. Army, and the accuracy attested to by the former Einsatzgruppen members who testified during war crime trials and at other times.
noLabel	In 2001, Sweden passed a law allowing only persons certified by the National Board of Health to circumcise infants, requiring a medical doctor or an anesthesia nurse to accompany the circumciser and for anaesthetic to be applied beforehand.	Jews and Muslims in Sweden objected to the law, and in 2001, the World Jewish Congress stated that it was "the first legal restriction on Jewish religious practice in Europe since the Nazi era.
noLabel	In an interview, Olson explained why they chose to write a popular book in addition to their academic publications: “We felt it was important to give intelligent people who haven't been involved in research a chance to see how media violence studies are planned, carried out and interpreted so they could judge for themselves what makes sense.	We also wanted to share insightful comments made by teens about the role of video games in their lives, and the specifics of parents' concerns.” .
noLabel	No mid-major however, or team from any conference outside of the 6 aligned conferences, has ever played in the BCS Championship Game, causing increasing controversy.	This controversy has become even more intense in light of the 4–1 record that mid-major teams have against teams from the 6 automatic qualifying conferences in the BCS Bowl games they have been allowed to play in.
noLabel	The Federation of American Scientists, a renowned organization for assessing nuclear weapon stockpiles, claims that Russia has 4,650 active nuclear warheads, while the U.S. has 2,468 .	Other sources however say that the U.S. has more nuclear warheads and the actual numbers remain a subject of estimations and ongoing constant discussion depending on their respective source.
noLabel	On the other hand, the American Civil Liberties Union also states in its website, "A program of targeted killing far from any battlefield, without charge or trial, violates the constitutional guarantee of due process.	It also violates international law, under which lethal force may be used outside armed conflict zones only as a last resort to prevent imminent threats, when non-lethal means are not available.
noLabel	Until 2003, tobacco manufacturers got around this restriction by sponsoring cultural and sporting events, such as the Benson and Hedges Symphony of Fire (a fireworks display in Toronto and Vancouver), which allowed the manufacturers' names and logos to appear in advertisements sponsoring the events, and at the venues.	The ban on tobacco sponsorship was a major factor that led to the near-cancellation of the Canadian Grand Prix in Montreal and the du Maurier Ltd Classic, a women's golf tournament on the LPGA tour (now known as the Canadian Women's Open). 
noLabel	Either a limited or full-scale nuclear exchange could occur during an accidental nuclear war, in which the use of nuclear weapons is triggered unintentionally.	Possible triggers for this scenario have included malfunctioning early warning devices and/or targeting computers, deliberate malfeasance by rogue military commanders, consequences of an accidental straying of warplanes into enemy airspace, reactions to unannounced missile tests during tense diplomatic periods, reactions to military exercises, mistranslated or misscommunicated messages, and others.
noLabel	South African forces feared the threat of a "domino effect" in favour of Communism, represented in southern Africa by Cuban proxy forces in Angola and threatening Namibia.	In 1988 South Africa signed the Tripartite Accord with Cuba and Angola, which led to the withdrawal of South African and Cuban troops from Angola and independence for Namibia. 
noLabel	However none of his descendants will be entitled to be called King of the Hellenes (not King of Greece) after his death.	Some states dispute the international acceptance of the right of their deposed monarchs to be referred to by their former title.
noLabel	Over a three week period researchers studied the relationship of socioeconomic status (SES) to body composition in 194 children, ages 11–12.	They measured weight, waist girth, stretch stature, skinfolds, physical activity, TV viewing, and SES; researchers discovered clear SES inclines to upper class children compared to the lower class children . 
noLabel	When the metabolites of nicotine were isolated and their effect on first the animal brain and then the human brain in people with schizophrenia were studied, it was shown that the effects helped with cognitive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia.	Therefore, the nicotinergic agents, as antipsychotics which do not contain nicotine but act on the same receptors in the brain are showing promise as adjunct antipsychotics in early stages of FDA studies on schizophrenia. 
noLabel	A cigar is a tightly-rolled bundle of dried and fermented tobacco that is ignited so that its smoke may be drawn into the mouth.	Cigar tobacco is grown in significant quantities in Brazil, Cameroon, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Indonesia, Mexico, Nicaragua, the Philippines, and the Eastern United States.
noLabel	In a political context the term is used for a wide variety of meanings, ranging from the advocacy of equal respect to the various cultures in a society, to a policy of promoting the maintenance of cultural diversity, to policies in which people of various ethnic and religious groups are addressed by the authorities as defined by the group they belong to .	A common aspect of many such policies is that they avoid presenting any specific ethnic, religious, or cultural community values as central . 
noLabel	In contrast, charter schools, which in Michigan are known as Public School Academies, can be authorized for creation by local school boards or the governing school boards of state colleges and universities .	This helps to show how the overlapping of some state laws in regards to charter schools equal in number to the unique laws of some states. 
noLabel	It was later clarrified that the only change done to the final version of the game was the name Morphine changed to Med-x.	This change was done to all versions worldwide, thus Australia got the same version of the game as other countries uncut with a MA15+. 
noLabel	If a heavenly existence is still more valuable than an earthly existence, then the earthly one seems unnecessary and filled with meaningless suffering.	Another problem is that an omnibenevolent deity does not seem to have the tremendous value associated with free will, since he can not fail to do what is good .
noLabel	The Scottish parliament follows a different approach: although its acts require Royal Assent, the concept of Queen-in-Parliament has not been incorporated.	Instead of the enacting clause seen in UK acts, acts of the Scottish parliament bear the following text above the long title: The Bill for this Act of the Scottish Parliament was passed by the Parliament on DATE and received Royal Assent on DATE.
noLabel	This proved successful during the 2005 UK General Election, when the BBC and ITV merged their data to show an exit poll giving Labour a majority of 66 seats, which turned out to be the exact figure.	This method was also successful in the 2007 Australian Federal Election, where the collaboration of Sky News, Channel 7 and Auspoll provided an almost exact 53 percent two party-preferred victory to Labor over the ruling Coalition.
noLabel	Democratic Voice of Burma puts the number of deaths at 138, basing their figure on a list compiled by the 88 Student Generation group in Myanmar.	The Executive Director of the DVB, Aye Chan Naing, told the Associated Press that "[t]his 138 figure is quite credible because it is based on names of victims, I also think the figure is accurate because of the pictures coming from inside Burma.
noLabel	In April 2008, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo, West Africa's 'Police arrested 14 suspected victims (of penis snatching) and sorcerers accused of using black magic or witchcraft to steal (make disappear) or shrink men's penises to extort cash for cure, amid a wave of panic.	Arrests were made in an effort to avoid bloodshed seen in Ghana a decade before, when 12 penis snatchers were beaten to death by mobs .
noLabel	Although the Act contains an exception for research, the DMCA has had an impact on the worldwide cryptography research community, because many fear that their cryptanalytic research violates, or might be construed to violate the law.	The arrest of Russian programmer Dmitry Sklyarov in 2001, for alleged infringement of the DMCA, was a highly publicized example of the law's use to prevent or penalize development of anti-digital rights management measures.
noLabel	Proponents of abstinence-only sex education argue that this approach is superior to comprehensive sex education because it emphasizes the teaching of morality that limits sex to that within the bounds of marriage, and that sex before marriage and at a young age has heavy physical and emotional costs .	They suggest that comprehensive sex education encourages premarital sexual activity among teenagers, which should be discouraged in an era when HIV and other incurable sexually transmitted infections are widespread and when teen pregnancy is an ongoing concern. 
noLabel	The Italian law defines various types of crimes that could be generally described as 'treason', although they are so many and so precisely defined that no one of them is simply called tradimento in the text of Codice Penale (Italian Criminal Code).	The treason-type crimes are grouped as Crimes against the personhood of the State ('Crimini contro la personalità dello Stato') in the Second Book, First Title, of the Criminal Code. 
noLabel	In response to the socialized phenomenon known as the feminization of poverty, policies aimed to reduce poverty have begun to address poor women separately from poor men .	In addition to engendering poverty and poverty interventions, a correlation between greater gender equality and greater poverty reduction and economic growth has been illustrated by research through the World Bank, suggesting that promoting gender equality through empowerment of women is a qualitatively significant poverty reduction strategy .
noLabel	In the United States, some Native American tribal nations have established their own gaming control boards for the purpose of regulating tribe-owned casinos located within reservations.	Although the tribal nation also owns the casino, appointing an independent gaming control board to oversee regulatory activities provides tribal members with assurances that the casino is operated within expected standards and that tribal revenue is accurately collected and reported.
noLabel	Mr. Lewis and his rivals for the post, Representatives Ralph Regula of Ohio and Harold Rogers of Kentucky, each began a fund-raising blitz.	And each concentrated on the industry that had benefited from spending appropriated by their subcommittee, which in Mr. Lewis's case was defense. 
noLabel	According to Abu Ahmed, the official media spokesman of the Al-Quds Brigades, the military wing of the Palestinian Islamic Jihad movement, Palestinian paramilitary factions in Gaza worked together, operationally and otherwise, to repel the Israeli attack on Gaza.	Abu Ahmed told Asharq al-Awsat during the war that, "everybody helps everybody else with regards to food, weapons, and first aid; there is no difference between a member 'Al Quds Brigade' or 'Al Qassam Brigade [military wing of Hamas]' or 'Al Aqsa Martyrs Brigade' or 'Abu Ali Mustafa Brigade [military wing of Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine or PFLP]'.
noLabel	Proposals to replace the Trident system were passed by the House of Commons by a majority of 248 on the 14 March 2007 .	However, the US are extending the life of their Trident submarines to 30–40 years and Professor Richard Garwin, a US nuclear weapons expert and advisor to three US presidents, has advised British MPs that the same could be done in the UK saving £5 billion and allowing time for a rethink of British nuclear strategy .
noLabel	The classic argument for copyright is the view that granting developers temporary monopolies over their works encourages further development and creativity by giving the developer a source of income; normally copyright is enforced within a framework of Berne convention, instigated by Victor Hugo and signed in 1886.	A central anti-copyright argument is that copyright has never been of net benefit to society and instead serves to enrich a few at the expense of creativity.
noLabel	The non-partisan Congressional Research Service (CRS) has reported the 10-year revenue loss from extending the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts beyond 2010 at $2.9 trillion, with an additional $606 billion in debt service costs (interest), for a combined total of $3.5 trillion.	CRS cited CBO estimates that extending the cuts permanently, including the repeal of the estate tax, would add 2% of GDP to the annual deficit . 
noLabel	Because of the low importance placed on assimilating minorities in Japan, laws regarding ethnic matters receive low priority in the legislative process .	Still, in 1997, "Ainu cultural revival" legislation was passed which replaced the previous "Hokkaido Former Aboriginal Protection" legislation that had devastating effects on the Ainu in the past. 
noLabel	Edward Portis offers a critique of what he terms ‘democratic education’ but his use of this term can be better understood as civic education.	Portis contends, as many democratic education practitioners and theorists would, that a compulsory curriculum that claims to imbue in its students ‘democratic virtues’ actually does exactly the opposite.
noLabel	All the papers begin with the common premise: a large quantity of carbon aerosol has found its way into the stratosphere.	As firestorm formation is clearly a necessity to generate the form of smoke discussed in the climatology models, this is the bedrock to all nuclear winter predictions.
noLabel	The disparity in the sex ratio at birth increases dramatically after the first birth, for which the ratios remained steadily within the natural baseline over the 20 year interval between 1980 and 1999.	Thus, a large majority of couples appear to accept the outcome of the first pregnancy, whether it is a boy or a girl.
noLabel	Orthodox Patriarch Alexei II of Moscow has demanded that the Vatican curb "proselytism" by Catholic clerics in Russia and eastern Europe .	Catholic officials have replied that their efforts in Russia were not aimed at Orthodox believers, but were reaching out to the vast majority of Russians who are not churchgoers . 
noLabel	When they wish to relax, they take deep puffs, which produce a high level of blood nicotine, which depresses the passage of nerve impulses, producing a mild sedative effect.	At low doses, nicotine potently enhances the actions of norepinephrine and dopamine in the brain, causing a drug effect typical of those of psychostimulants.
noLabel	The main difference between a nonpartisan blanket primary and a standard two-round system is that, depending on the structure of the law, it may not be possible to avoid a second round, even if one candidate wins an absolute majority of votes in the first round (the primary).	However, it is not necessarily the case that a second round is always required; a more standard two-round system can also be implemented if that be the wish of the state legislature or the will of the people (expressed through initiative or referendum).
noLabel	The Guidelines also recognised the need for physical protection measures in the transfer of sensitive facilities, technology and weapons-usable materials, and strengthened retransfer provisions.	The group began with seven membersthe United States, the former USSR, the UK, France, Germany, Canada and Japanbut now includes 46 countries including all five nuclear weapons states. 
noLabel	The Intelligence and Terrorism Information Centre reported that Hamas made extensive use of the Al-Fahoura Medical Centre and that they established a military camp and training base next to it.	The ITIC released aerial pictures showing tunnels dug around the building and the medical centre and that the area surrounding the hospital was heavily mined.
noLabel	The controversy regarding the CHRC's practices comes from its enforcement of Section 13(1) of the Canadian Human Rights Act, which states that it is discriminatory to communicate by phone or Internet any material "that is likely to expose a person or persons to hatred or contempt."	Critics claim that CHRC adjudicators have limited legal training and poor investigative resources and allege that, as a result, the power of section 13(1) is being used for nuisance cases that would be tossed out if they were adjudicated within the judicial system . 
noLabel	Other scholars have concluded that early Christians considered abortion a sin at all stages; though there is disagreement over their thoughts on what type of sin it was and how grave a sin it was held to be, it was seen as at least as grave as sexual immorality .	Some early Christians believed that the embryo did not have a soul from conception, and consequently opinion was divided as to whether early abortion was murder or ethically equivalent to murder .
noLabel	Near the mailboxes or some other location accessible by outsiders, there may be a buzzer (equivalent to a doorbell) for each individual unit.	In smaller apartment buildings such as two- or three-flats, or even four-flats, rubbish is often disposed of in trash containers similar to those used at houses.
noLabel	In areas that have enacted VEP policies, an individual who is aware that they suffer from gambling addiction can voluntarily request that their name be added to the VEP list.	If their application is accepted, the person in question becomes legally banned from all participating casinos within the VEP coverage area.
noLabel	Both imported tobacco and tobacco pipes became prized and valuable trading goods and were both quickly absorbed into African cultural traditions, rituals and politics.	A rich artistic tradition of decorated pipes of wood, ceramics and, eventually, metal developed and spawned an endless variety of themes and motifs of all shapes and sizes. 
noLabel	Teachers sometimes use multiple examples to satisfy diverse students, but there is no standard benchmark for multicultural education and teachers usually add their own values to their education.	Consequently, if teachers try to deliberately concentrate on providing multicultural examples, it may confuse international students and it cannot guarantee a fair education environment.
noLabel	(a) A, a shopkeeper, says to B, who manages his business-"Sell nothing to Z unless he pays you ready money, for I have no opinion of his honesty."	A is within the exception, if he has made this imputation on Z in good faith for the protection of his own interests. 
noLabel	Hutchison proposed the "District of Columbia Personal Protection Act," which drew 31 cosponsors in the United States Senate, while drawing 157 cosponsors from the House.	This bill would have protected gun rights of DC citizens by dismantling the handgun bans the city had in place for thirty years.
noLabel	The third edition, published in 1980, was the first to recognize substance abuse (including drug abuse) and substance dependence as conditions separate from substance abuse alone, bringing in social and cultural factors.	The definition of dependence emphasised tolerance to drugs, and withdrawal from them as key components to diagnosis, whereas abuse was defined as "problematic use with social or occupational impairment" but without withdrawal or tolerance. 
noLabel	Acting under the code name DELMAR he obtained information from Oak Ridge and the Dayton Project about the Urchin (detonator) used on the Fat Man plutonium bomb.	His work was not known to the west until he was posthumously recognized as a hero of the Russian Federation by Vladimir Putin in 2007. 
noLabel	In the United States, the granting of television and radio licenses by the FCC is contingent upon the station broadcasting a certain amount of public service advertising.	To meet these requirements, many broadcast stations in America air the bulk of their required public service announcements during the late night or early morning when the smallest percentage of viewers are watching, leaving more day and prime time commercial slots available for high-paying advertisers. 
noLabel	The World Trade Organization (WTO) was created to open up markets and promote international trade based on the 'Free Trade' paradigm.	The WTO creates and monitors agreements to reduce trade barriers, and arbitrates in disputes over foreign market access, and violations of these agreements.
noLabel	A broken nose is a more difficult case, and can be detected by a heavy flow of dark colored blood from the nose.	The bleeding is generally treated the same way; however, the fighter is usually instructed to avoid swallowing blood as it may induce nausea or vomiting, and the cutman is more likely to consult the ringside physician to ensure the fighter's safety.
noLabel	Canadian access to information laws distinguish between access to records generally and access to records that contain personal information about the person making the request.	Subject to exceptions, individuals have a right of access to records that contain their own personal information under the Privacy Act but the general public does not have a right of access to records that contain personal information about others under the Access to Information Act. 
noLabel	David W. Schindler, a limnologist from the University of Alberta, co-authored a study on Alberta's oil sands' contribution of aromatic polycyclic compounds, some of which are known carcinogens, to the Athabasca River and its tributaries .	Scientists, local doctors, and residents supported a letter sent to the Prime Minister in September 2010 calling for an independent study of Lake Athabasca (which is downstream of the oil sands) to be initiated due to the rise of deformities and tumors found in fish caught there . 
noLabel	For sources of curricula and books, "Homeschooling in the United States: 2003" found that 78 percent utilized "a public library"; 77 percent used "a homeschooling catalog, publisher, or individual specialist"; 68 percent used "retail bookstore or other store"; 60 percent used "an education publisher that was not affiliated with homeschooling."	"Approximately half" used curriculum or books from "a homeschooling organization", 37 percent from a "church, synagogue or other religious institution" and 23 percent from "their local public school or district."
noLabel	Turkey receives many economic migrants from nearby countries such as Azerbaijan, Georgia, Armenia, but also from North Caucasus, Central Asia, Afghanistan and Pakistan .	The Iraq War is thought to have increased the flow of illegal immigration into Turkey, and the global parties directly involved in the conflict have been accused of extending a less-helping hand than Turkey itself to resolve the precarious situation of immigrants stranded in passage .
noLabel	These films show explicit, non simulated, penetrative sex that was presented as part of a reasonable plot with respectable production values.	Some state authorities issued injunctions against such films to protect "local community standards"; in New York the print of Deep Throat was seized mid-run, and the film's exhibitors were found guilty of promoting obscenity .
noLabel	After graduation from school at the age of fifteen to nineteen (depending on type of school), students start an apprenticeship in their chosen professions.	Realschule and Gymnasium graduates usually have better chances for being accepted as an apprentice for sophisticated craft professions or apprenticeships in white-collar jobs in finance or administration.
noLabel	The infanticide objection points out that infants (indeed up to about one year of age, since it is only around then that they begin to outstrip the abilities of non-human animals) have only one of Warren’s characteristics—consciousness—and hence would have to be accounted non-persons on her view; thus her view would permit not only abortion but infanticide.	Warren agrees that infants are non-persons (and so killing them is not strictly murder), but denies that infanticide is generally permissible .
noLabel	Another philosophical use of the term "corruption" is in opposition to "generation," as in Aristotle's book On Generation and Corruption also known as On Coming to Be and Passing Away.	In this sense, corruption is the process of ceasing to exist and is closely related to the concept of dying given certain views about the nature of living things.
noLabel	In the rematch with Liston, which was held in May 1965 in Lewiston, Maine, Ali (who had by then publicly converted to Islam and changed his name) won by knockout in the first round as a result of what came to be called the "phantom punch."	Many believe that Liston, possibly as a result of threats from Nation of Islam extremists, or in an attempt to "throw" the fight to pay off debts, waited to be counted out (see Muhammad Ali versus Sonny Liston).
noLabel	In military dictatorships, or governments which have arisen from coups-d'etat, the position of commander-in-chief is obvious, as all authority in such a government derives from the application of military force; occasionally a power vacuum created by war is filled by a head of state stepping beyond his or her normal constitutional role, as King Albert I of Belgium did during World War I.	In these and in revolutionary regimes, the head of state, and often executive ministers whose offices are legally civilian, will frequently appear in military uniform.
noLabel	According to Bernt Hugenholtz and Lucie Guibault the public domain is under pressure from the "commodification of information" as item of information that previously had little or no economic value, have acquired independent economic value in the information age, such as factual data, personal data, genetic information and pure ideas.	The commodification of information is taking place through intellectual property law, contract law, as well as broadcasting and telecommunications law .
noLabel	As of 2011, ESA reported that 71% of people age six to forty-nine in the U.S. played video games, with 55% of gamers playing on their phones or mobile devices .	The average age of players across the globe is mid to late 20s, and is increasing as older players grow in numbers . 
noLabel	Reproductive health is a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, in all matters relating to the reproductive system and its functions and processes.	Reproductive health therefore implies that people are able to have a satisfying and safe sex life and that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so.
noLabel	Since a major cause of TBI are vehicle accidents, their prevention or the amelioration of their consequences can both reduce the incidence and gravity of TBI.	In accidents, damage can be reduced by use of seat belts, child safety seats and motorcycle helmets, and presence of roll bars and airbags .
noLabel	Between 2005 and 2007, Palestinian groups in Gaza fired about 2,700 locally made Qassam rockets into Israel, killing four Israeli civilians and injuring 75 others.	During the same period, Israel fired more than 14,600 155&nbsp;mm artillery shells into the Gaza Strip, killing 59 Palestinians and injuring 270. 
noLabel	In the United States, all books and other works published before 1923 have expired copyrights and are in the public domain .	In addition, works published before 1964 that did not have their copyrights renewed 28 years after first publication year also are in the public domain, except that books originally published outside the US by non-Americans are exempt from this requirement, if they are still under copyright in their home country (see  for more details). 
noLabel	Such characterizations have led to the concern that parents may allow their children to play these games, not realizing that there are still some elements of violence including violent deaths.	Further ambiguities arise when determining whether a game is a first-person shooter, as in certain games such as Narbacular Drop, the player doesn't shoot anything at all, but merely clicks walls with the cursor.
noLabel	A huge surplus of labor began to immigrate to the United States, many of whom were unskilled, with names that were often difficult to pronounce.	Employers were not bound by the same anti-discriminatory legislature that exists now and tended to gravitate toward individuals with more American names. 
noLabel	The increasing popularity of open source distributed version control systems such as git (created in 2005), and then DVCS hosting sites, the most popular of which is GitHub (founded 2008), incrementally reduced the barriers to participation in free software projects still further.	With sites like GitHub, no longer did potential contributors have to do things like hunt for the URL for the source code repository (which could be in different places on each website, or sometimes tucked away in a README file or developer documentation), or work out how to generate a patch, and if necessary subscribe to the right mailing list so that their patch email would get to the right people.
noLabel	Another way of expressing theological noncognitivism is, for any sentence S, S is cognitively meaningless if and only if S expresses an unthinkable proposition or S does not express a proposition.	The sentence X is a four-sided triangle that exists outside of space and time, cannot be seen or measured and it actively hates blue spheres is an example of an unthinkable proposition.
noLabel	To prove infringement, the patent owner must establish that the accused infringer practices all the requirements of at least one of the claims of the patent.	(In many jurisdictions the scope of the patent may not be limited to what is literally stated in the claims, for example due to the "doctrine of equivalents"). 
noLabel	Because of these dependencies, a widespread and fundamental public debate about advertising and its influence on information and freedom of speech is difficult to obtain, at least through the usual media channels: it would saw off the branch it was sitting on.	“The notion that the commercial basis of media, journalism, and communication could have troubling implications for democracy is excluded from the range of legitimate debate” just as “capitalism is off-limits as a topic of legitimate debate in US political culture” . 
noLabel	In the 1960s and 1970s the birth control movement advocated for the legalisation of abortion and large scale education campaigns about contraception by governments .	In a broader context birth control has become an arena for conflict between liberal and conservative values, raising questions about family, personal freedom, state intervention, religion in politics, sexual morality and social welfare .
noLabel	The visit was projected for the spring of 2003 in order to assure that one could present a report during the annual meeting of the British Royal College of Psychiatrists in June/July of that year and the Annual Meeting of the American Psychiatric Association in May of the same year .	After the 2002 World Congress, the WPA Executive Committee’s half-hearted attitude in Yokohama came to light: it was an omen of a longstanding policy of diversion and postponement .
noLabel	However, elements of socioeconomic change, such as increased employment of women in both urban and rural areas and reduced infant mortality (a greater percentage of surviving children would tend to reduce demand for additional children), may have played some role.	The birth rate increased in both 1981 and 1982 to a level of 21 per 1,000, primarily as a result of a marked rise in marriages and first births.
noLabel	While the option of conscientious objection is required by law, in the past there were several hurdles in place to discourage it.	Until 1983 conscientious objectors had to undergo a "Gewissensprüfung" (inspection of conscience), an oral examination before a board that tried their motivations, which could decide to deny them conscientious objector status. 
noLabel	Certain geothermal projects ( such as one near Basel, Switzerland in 2006) have been suspended or canceled owing to objectionable seismicity induced by geothermal recovery .	However, risks associated with "hydrofracturing induced seismicity are low compared to that of natural earthquakes, and can be reduced by careful management and monitoring" and "should not be regarded as an impediment to further development of the Hot Rock geothermal energy resource" .
noLabel	In the same way it is unethical to promote poverty in underdeveloped nations as cultural diversity it is also unethical to promote all religious practices simply because they contribute to cultural diversity.	Particularly, there are some practices that are recognized by the WHO and UN as unethical: Female Genital Mutilation, Sati (burning the widow on the husbands burial pyre), polygamy, child brides, human sacrifice, etc . 
noLabel	In winter 2006/2007, in response to criticism about oil imports from Venezuela, that country being under the leadership of Hugo Chávez, the founder and president of Citizens Energy Corporation Joseph P. Kennedy II countered with a critique of the U.S. system which he characterized as “a kind of socialism for the rich and free enterprise for the poor that leaves the most vulnerable out in the cold” .	Also Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. has become known for expressing to large audiences that the United States is now a land of “socialism for the rich and brutal capitalism for the poor” . 
noLabel	Many media groups in the U.S. noted that Palin changed her position regarding the bridges, and concluded that she exaggerated her claim that she stopped the proposals from going through .	According to the Los Angeles Times, for instance, while seeking votes for her governorship race, Palin told Ketchikan residents that she backed the "bridge to nowhere"; as governor, she spent the money elsewhere and moved ahead with a $26-million road to the nonexistent bridge .
noLabel	In several nations, powerful rulers – called "enlightened despots" by historians – welcomed leaders of the Enlightenment at court and had them help design laws and programs to reform the system, typically to build stronger national states .	The most prominent of those rulers were Frederick the Great of Prussia, Catherine the Great, Empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796, and Joseph II, Emperor of Austria 1780&ndash;1790.
noLabel	On 6 March 2006, the IAEA Secretariat reported that "the Agency has not seen indications of diversion of nuclear material to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices .. however, after three years of intensive verification, there remain uncertainties with regard to both the scope and the nature of Iran's nuclear programme" .	However, the inspectors did find some sensitive documents, including instructions and diagrams on how to make uranium into a sphere, which is only necessary to make nuclear weapons.
noLabel	Laundry facilities may be found in a common area accessible to all the tenants in the building, or each apartment may have its own facilities.	Depending on when the building was built and the design of the building, utilities such as water, heating, and electricity may be common for all the apartments in the building or separate for each apartment and billed separately to each tenant (however, many areas in the US have ruled it illegal to split a water bill among all the tenants, especially if a pool is on the premises).
noLabel	Logan announced on December 13 that 561 absentee ballots in the county had been wrongly rejected due to an administrative error .	The next day, workers retrieving voting machines from precinct storage found an additional 12 ballots, bringing the total to 572 newly discovered ballots.
noLabel	Though the Qur'an expresses no racial prejudice, such prejudices later developed among Arabs for a variety of reasons: their extensive conquests and slave trade; the influence of Aristotelian ideas regarding slavery, which some Muslim philosophers directed towards Zanj (East African) and Turkic peoples; and the influence of Judeo-Christian ideas regarding divisions among humankind .	In response to such views, the Afro-Arab author Al-Jahiz, himself having a Zanj grandfather, wrote a book entitled Superiority Of The Blacks To The Whites, and explained why the Zanj were black in terms of environmental determinism in the "On the Zanj" chapter of The Essays .
noLabel	The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act, enacted in 1994, included the Federal Assault Weapons Ban, and was a response to public concern over mass shootings .	This provision prohibited the manufacture and importation of some semiautomatic firearms that exhibitied military style features such as a folding stock, pistol grip and flash suppressor, as well as magazines holding more than ten rounds .
noLabel	Demographic breakouts demonstrated that men were more likely than women to agree that the supervision of minors’ video purchases should be left to parents, and not be regulated by the states.	In addition, younger voters were far more likely than older voters to say the states should not have the right to decide what is “too violent for kids.”  . 
noLabel	" Later that month, at a Chamber of Commerce meeting in Wasilla, Alaska, Democratic candidate Tony Knowles criticized Palin for supporting the Knik Arm Bridge, the Gravina Island Bridge, and a road north out of Juneau instead of rebuilding the Parks Highway.	The Ketchikan Daily News noted that, of the gubernatorial candidates, "Only Palin is consistent in support all of the projects" . 
noLabel	Although wars were subsequently fought over access to markets these have always been markets in commodities not domestically available (principally oil; see also – Raw materials causes of Japanese expansionism.)	In the history of the world, no country has ever suffered military defeat, or capitulated to sanctions, due to the inability to produce a domestically producible product.
noLabel	The term (as "high school") originated over 500 years ago in Scotland, with the world's oldest being Edinburgh's Royal High School from 1505 .	The Royal High School was used as a model for the first public high school in the United States, the English High School founded in Boston, Massachusetts in 1821.
noLabel	As a result, rather than stretching from March to July, most primaries take place in a compressed time frame in February and March.	National party leaders also have an interest in compressing the primary calendar, as it enables the party to reduce the chance of a bruising internecine battle and to preserve resources for the general campaign. 
noLabel	Compared to these extensive costs, some would argue there is very little benefit; if there ever was a war then conscription and basic training could be completed quickly, and in any case there is little threat of a war in most countries with conscription.	In the United States, every male resident must register with the Selective Service System on his 18th birthday, so he is available for a draft. 
noLabel	According to SIECUS, the Sexuality Information and Education Council of the United States, in most families, parents are the primary sex educators of their adolescents.	They found 93% of adults they surveyed support sexuality education in high school and 84% support it in junior high school .
noLabel	The international demand for Madagascar's precious woods, such as rosewood and ebony, is growing primarily due to a surge in the numbers of Chinese middle class over the last five years .	Furniture, such as armories, beds, and cabinets, styled after ornate designs from the Ming Dynasty fetch up to $10,000, and traditional Chinese instruments are associated with fine red grain of rosewood and have become a popular way for the Chinese middle class to express their new-found wealth . 
noLabel	As of June 2010, cases were heard before Korean courts and individuals were fined a few thousand dollars for emailing true facts (an email stated “she admitted she was guilty” to a lawyer managing a related case).	These comments were identified in email sent to foreign lawyers [considered privileged and confidential in Canada] managing a related case in Canada.
noLabel	This effect may be caused by emigration and higher male mortality as result of higher Soviet era deaths; it may also be related to the enormous (by western standards) rate of alcoholism in the former Soviet states.	Another possible contributory factor is an aging population, with a higher than normal proportion of relatively elderly people: we recall that due to higher differential mortality rates the ratio of males to females reduces for each year of age.
noLabel	According to a survey, two out of three paediatric surgeons said they refuse to perform non-therapeutic circumcision, and less than half of all county councils offer it in their hospitals .	However, in 2006, the U.S. State Department stated, in a report on Sweden, that most Jewish mohels had been certified under the law and 3000 Muslim and 40-50 Jewish boys were circumcised each 
noLabel	Societies try a number of different measures to get as many people as possible into work, and various societies have experienced close to full employment for extended periods, particularly during the Post-World War II economic expansion.	The United Kingdom in the 1950s and 60s averaged 1.6% unemployment, while in Australia the 1945 White Paper on Full Employment in Australia established a government policy of full employment, which policy lasted until the 1970s when the government ran out of money. 
noLabel	Hamas issued a statement stating that the incident was a misunderstanding between the drivers of the trucks and had been resolved through direct contact with the UNRWA .	On 9 February, UNRWA lifted the suspension on the movement of its humanitarian supplies into Gaza, after the Hamas authorities returned all of the aid supplies confiscated .
noLabel	The Roman Catholic Church kept a tight rein on religious expression throughout the Middle Ages, basing its principles on the Bible and on the Gospel.	Jews were alternately tolerated and persecuted, the most notable examples of the latter being the expulsion of all Jews from Spain in 1492.
noLabel	In his 1963 book Change, Hope and the Bomb, David E. Lilienthal criticized nuclear developments, particularly the nuclear industry's failure to address the nuclear waste question.	He argued that it would be "..particularly irresponsible to go ahead with the construction of full scale nuclear power plants without a safe method of nuclear waste disposal having been demonstrated."
noLabel	In the United States vs. IBM antitrust suit, filed January 17, 1969, the U.S. government charged that bundled software was anticompetitive .	While some software continued to come at no cost, there was a growing amount of software that was for sale only under restrictive licences. 
noLabel	Many universities such as Southern New Hampshire University, have begun to offer hybrid courses; where adult learners have the option of in-classroom learning, as well as taking online courses .	Online courses have brought the possibility of obtaining an affordable college education, to many of those of whom it was previously out of reach. 
noLabel	But, a vain appearance of such a contradiction arises chiefly from this, that either the dogmas of faith have not been understood and interpreted according to the mind of the Church, or deceitful opinions are considered as the determinations of reason.	Therefore, "every assertion contrary to the truth illuminated by faith, we define to be altogether false" [ Lateran Council V, see . 
noLabel	The first directly elected mayor was introduced in Greater London in 2000 as part of the statutory provisions of the Greater London Authority Act 1999.	Elsewhere in England and Wales, since the Local Government Act 2000, there have been a range of options for how a local council leadership can be constituted, and installing a directly elected mayor is one of these options.
noLabel	Lack of government policy support, which includes the lack of policies and regulations supporting deployment of renewable energy technologies and the presence of policies and regulations hindering renewable energy development and supporting conventional energy development.	Examples include subsidies for fossil-fuels, insufficient consumer-based renewable energy incentives, government underwriting for nuclear plant accidents, and complex zoning and permitting processes for renewable energy. 
noLabel	If equality of opportunity is violated, perhaps by discrimination which affects a subgroup or population over time, it is possible to make this determination using statistical analysis, but there are numerous difficulties involved .	Nevertheless, entities such as city governments and universities have hired full-time professionals with knowledge of statistics to ensure compliance with equal opportunity regulations.
noLabel	Calls for a boycott of the 2008 Summer Olympic Games grow around the world, as more people began to say that increased pressure on the Chinese government was the best way to support the Burmese people.	The British Broadcasting World News TV service aired interviews, e-mails and text messages from many parts of the world supporting the idea and also calling on people to cancel tickets, airline bookings and hotel reservations in Beijing.
noLabel	Individualism, sometimes closely associated with certain variants of anarchism or liberalism, typically takes it for granted that individuals know best and that public authority or society has no right to interfere in the person's decision-making process, unless a very compelling need to do so arises (and maybe not even in those circumstances).	This type of argument can occur in policy debates regarding regulation of industries, as well as in relation to personal choice of lifestyle.
noLabel	In the case of a national group, the example of seeing the mobilization of a foreign military force on the nation's borders may provoke members of a national group to unify and mobilize themselves in response .	There are proximate environments where individuals identify nonimmediate real or imagined situations in combination with immediate situations that make individuals confront a common situation of both subjective and objective components that affect their decisions .
noLabel	The route of the recurrent laryngeal nerve is such that it travels from the brain to the larynx by looping around the aortic arch.	This same configuration holds true for many animals; in the case of the giraffe, this results in about twenty feet of extra nerve. 
noLabel	European merchants, backed by state controls, subsidies, and monopolies, made most of their profits from the buying and selling of goods.	In the words of Francis Bacon, the purpose of mercantilism was "the opening and well-balancing of trade; the cherishing of manufacturers; the banishing of idleness; the repressing of waste and excess by sumptuary laws; the improvement and husbanding of the soil; the regulation of prices…" . 
noLabel	North Korea has also developed the Taepodong-1 missile, which has a range of 2,500&nbsp;km, but it is not yet in full deployment.	With the development of the Taepodong-2 missile, with an expected range of 5,000–6,000&nbsp;km, North Korea could hypothetically deliver a warhead to almost all countries in Southeast Asia, as well as the western side of North America. 
noLabel	Shopping malls are often detrimental to downtown shopping centres of nearby cities since the shopping malls act as a surrogate for the city centre (Crawford 1992).	Some downtowns have responded to this challenge by building shopping centres of their own (Frieden and Sagelyn 1989; consider also Toronto Eaton Centre (1977), Ottawa's Rideau Centre, Boston's Shops at Prudential Center, and Providence's Providence Place). 
noLabel	 The Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak denounced Israel's use of "excessive and unjustified force" while the Foreign Ministry summoned the Israeli ambassador to express its condemnation .	The Egyptian President also ordered the opening of the Egyptian border to Gaza on Tuesday to allow humanitarian and medical aid into the Gaza Strip
noLabel	Disagreeing with Barro's study were: Berkeley economist Jesse Rothstein—who found the “vast majority” of unemployment was due to “demand shocks” not “UI-induced supply reductions.” A November report by the Congressional Budget Office, found that even if UI benefits convince some unemployed to ignore job opening, these openings were quickly filled by new entrants into the labor market .	A Survey of studies on Unemployment Insurances’s effect on employment by the Political Economy Research Institute found that unemployed who collected UI did not find themselves out of work longer than those who didn’t have unemployment benefits; and that unemployed workers did not search for work more or reduce their wage expectations once their benefits run out . 
noLabel	The Amnesty report, issued in July 2009, found no evidence that Palestinian militants had forced civilians to stay in buildings being used for military purposes, contradicting Israeli claims that Hamas repeatedly used "human shields"; however, Amnesty assumed that Palestinian militant groups had endangered civilians by firing rockets from residential neighbourhoods and storing weapons in them .	Human Rights Watch researchers said that they did not find instances in which Palestinian fighters had fired from within the midst of the civilian population; however, they pointed out that the International Crisis Group interviewed three Hamas fighters in January who said, "They had often fired rockets in close proximity to homes and from alleys, hoping that nearby civilians would deter Israel from responding.
noLabel	Canadian John Peters Humphrey was called upon by the United Nations Secretary-General to work on the project and became the Declaration's principal drafter .	At the time Humphrey was newly appointed as Director of the Division of Human Rights within the United Nations Secretariat .
noLabel	Free market capitalism consists of a free-price system where supply and demand are allowed to reach their point of equilibrium without intervention by the government.	Productive enterprises are privately owned, and the role of the state is limited to protecting the rights to life, liberty, and property.
noLabel	Although baseball bans the use of steroids and amphetamines, it had not tested for any performance-enhancing drugs until the steroid testing began, largely because the players union has been opposed to testing on the grounds that it infringes on players' privacy rights.	The National Football League, the National Basketball Association and the International Olympic Committee each conduct random tests for steroids and amphetamines.
noLabel	The term "concussion" has been used for centuries and is still commonly used in sports medicine, while "MTBI" is a technical term used more commonly nowadays in general medical contexts.	Frequently defined as a head injury with a temporary loss of brain function, concussion can cause a variety of physical, cognitive, and emotional symptoms. 
noLabel	In 2007, Palin supported a 2003 Alaska Department of Fish and Game policy allowing the hunting of wolves from the air as part of a predator control program intended to increase moose and caribou populations for subsistence-food gatherers and other hunters .	In March 2007, Palin's office announced that a bounty of $150 per wolf would be paid to the 180 volunteer pilots and gunners, to offset fuel costs, in five areas of Alaska.
noLabel	In the early twentieth century, the meaning of the recently popularized concept of the melting pot was subject to ongoing debate which centered on the issue of immigration.	The debate surrounding the concept of the melting pot centered on how immigration impacted American society and on how immigrants should be approached.
noLabel	Our assumption is that new openings of nuclear power plants worldwide will simply offset the closing of aging plants, with no overall growth in capacity.	If we use full-cost pricing—requiring utilities to absorb the costs of disposing of nuclear waste, of decommissioning the plant when it is worn out, and of insuring the reactors against possible accidents and terrorist attacks—building nuclear plants in a competitive electricity market is simply not economical .
noLabel	According to Gallup's long-time polling on abortion, the majority of Americans are neither strictly Pro-Life or Pro-Choice; it depends upon circumstances.	Gallup polling from 1996 to 2009 consistently reveals that when asked the question, "Do you think abortions should be legal under any circumstances, legal only under certain circumstances, or illegal in all circumstances?
noLabel	On December 19, Hamas refused to enter talks to renew the six-month truce and a Hamas spokesman announced that it would not extend the cease-fire .	Palestinian sources said that Hamas wanted to renew the truce, but only on improved terms – a complete opening of the border crossings with Israel, the opening of the Rafah border crossing with Egypt, a complete ban on Israeli military activity in Gaza and an extension of the truce to the West Bank as well.
noLabel	Sir Tom Stoppard’s play Every Good Boy Deserves Favour (1977) which is set in a Soviet mental institution, originally performed with the London Symphony Orchestra, was inspired by the personal account of former detainee Victor Fainberg and Clayton Yeo's expose of the use of psychiatric abuse in the USSR, published in Index on Censorship (Issue 2/1975) .	Stoppard became a member of the advisory board of Index on Censorship in 1978 and remains connected to the publication as a Patron of Index. 
noLabel	 After an individual ascends the throne, he or she typically continues to reign until death, being unable to unilaterally abdicate per the tenets of constitutional monarchy.	The only New Zealand monarch to abdicate, Edward VIII, did so with the authorization of the New Zealand government granted in His Majesty's Declaration of Abdication Act, 1936.
noLabel	In The Netherlands over two-thirds of state-funded schools operate autonomously, with many of these schools being linked to faith groups .	The Programme for International Student Assessment, coordinated by the OECD, ranks the education in the Netherlands as the 9th best in the world as of 2008, being significantly higher than the OECD average .
noLabel	The average working day would give most parents the chance to do a full time job, in between dropping off and picking up their kids.	"The coalition government has already used guarantees of free nursery funding and school meals for primary school pupils to attract support from what it describes as "hard working families".A spokeswoman for the Department for Education offered a non-commital response: "We will obviously consider recommendations for further reforms.
noLabel	Some commentators have noted that the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act's language was carefully crafted to take into account previous rulings .	Although in most cases the procedure legally defined as "partial birth abortion" would be medically defined as "intact dilation and extraction", these overlapping terms do not always coincide.
noLabel	The Accra Agenda for Action states that transparency and accountability are essential elements for development results, as well as drivers of progress .	Mutual accountability and transparency is one of the five partnership commitments of the Paris Declaration Through transparency, donors and recipients can be held accountable for what they spend and aid can be made more effective by knowing : Who gives money to which recipient, What project is being funded and for what purpose, and Where (the 3 Ws of transparency) 
noLabel	Iran responded that "it is incongruent for a country [US] who itself is a producer of weapons of mass destruction to take such a decision.	" Mohamed ElBaradei, director of the IAEA at the time, said he had no evidence Iran was building nuclear weapons and accused US leaders of adding "fuel to the fire" with their rhetoric .
noLabel	Video ad: similar to a banner ad, except that instead of a static or animated image, actual moving video clips are displayed.	This is the kind of advertising most prominent in television, and many advertisers will use the same clips for both television and online advertising. 
noLabel	The White House summarized the President's conversation saying "The president expressed deep regret at the loss of life in today's incident, and concern for the wounded.	" In the Senate, Majority Leader Harry Reid and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell co-authored a letter signed by 85 other senators arguing for the legality of the blockade and the raid and calling on the President to support Israel .
noLabel	Rangel was part of the House–Senate joint conference that worked on the Tax Reform Act of 1986, a simplifying overhaul that constituted the most sweeping reform of the U.S. tax code in 50 years .	In the negotiations, Rangel successfully argued for dropping more lower-income people from the tax rolls; the elimination of six million households from federal income taxation was hailed as wise policy by both liberal and conservative groups .
noLabel	The monarchy currently remains secure in the United Kingdom with MORI Polls in the opening years of the 21st century showing support for retaining the monarchy stable at around 80% of people .	In 2005, during the time of the wedding of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles, support for the monarchy dipped slightly with one poll showing that only 65% of people would support keeping the monarchy if there were a referendum on the issue, with 22% saying they favoured a republic .
noLabel	However at p.&nbsp;668, the Court held: "It does not protect publications prompting the overthrow of government by force", which Gitlow and associates advocated in their publications.	The Supreme Court has cited Gitlow v. New York as precedent for a series of decisions that made most, but not all, of the provisions of the Bill of Rights restrictions applicable to the states under the doctrine of selective incorporation. 
noLabel	Due to fears concerning their fate during and after the invasion, the Okinawan people hid in caves and in family tombs.	Several mass deaths occurred, such as in the "Cave of the Virgins", where many Okinawan school girls committed suicide by jumping off cliffs for fear of rape.
noLabel	In addition, while formally the Emperor's duties include appointing the Prime Minister to office, article 6 of the constitution requires him to appoint the candidate "as designated by the Diet" (in practice, the candidate designated by the House of Representatives), without any right to decline appointment.	This is in marked contrast to his status under the Meiji Constitution, which recognized the emperor as the embodiment of all sovereign power of the realm. 
noLabel	If any tactical voting occurred, it seemed to be on the Republican side, with the vast majority of the Republican voters choosing Rossi, perceived as a more electable candidate.	In this case, the Top Two primary resulted in a more moderate Republican candidate running against the Democratic incumbent, and likely a much more competitive race than if the Tea Party candidate had run against Murray .
noLabel	The territories occupied by Israel from Egypt, Jordan, and Syria after the Six-Day War of 1967 have been designated as occupied territory by the United Nations and many other international organisations, governments and others.	They consist of the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and much of the Golan Heights and, until 1982, the Sinai Peninsula.
noLabel	An Israeli government document stated, A country has the right to decide that it chooses not to engage in economic relations or to give economic assistance to the other party to the conflict, or that it wishes to operate using 'economic warfare' .	An Israeli government spokesman added in 2010 that the blockade is intended to bring about a political goal and that Israel "could not lift the embargo altogether as long as Hamas remains in control" of Gaza . 
noLabel	As Britain's colonies won independence, many immigrated to the motherland, and for the first time communities of all colours were seen in London and the industrial cities of the North.	The Equal Pay Act 1970, the Sex Discrimination Act 1975 and the Race Relations Act 1976 were passed by Harold Wilson's Labour government. 
noLabel	German is not the only language to have a specific name for male virginity; in French, male virgins are called "puceau".	Males presenting with phimosis who injure their frenulum during first penetration are said to be "uncartridged" as opposed to "cartridged" before first intercourse . 
noLabel	Republican Majority Leader Eric Cantor indicated that it would be a tough bill to pass quickly: "Insisting that this body and the two sides here agree on everything is not a reasonable expectation.	" House Speaker Boehner said the president’s bill should be analyzed immediately by the Congressional Budget Office for scoring before the administration and Congress pursue negotiations .
noLabel	In April 2007, Putin warned of a new Cold War if the Americans deployed the shield in the former Eastern Bloc .	Putin also said that Russia is prepared to abandon its obligations under a Nuclear Forces Treaty of 1987 with the United States . 
noLabel	The magazine also systematically presents pro-smoking arguments at length, arguing that cigars are safer than cigarettes, that life is dangerous anyway, that (contrary to the evidence discussed in Health effects) cigar smoking has health benefits, that moderation eliminates most or all health risk, that cigar smokers live to old age, that health research is flawed, and that strategically selected health-research results support claims of safety .	Like its competitor Smoke, Cigar Aficionado differs from marketing vehicles used for other tobacco products in that it makes cigars the focus of the entire magazine, creating a symbiosis between product and lifestyle . 
noLabel	" A meta-analysis by psychologist Jonathan Freedman, who reviewed over 200 published studies and found that the "vast and overwhelming majority" did not find a causal link, also reached this conclusion .	A US Secret Service study found that only 12% of those involved in school shootings were attracted to violent video games, while 24% read violent books and 27% were attracted to violent films .
noLabel	In this view, there are many beliefs that are held by faith alone, that rational thought would force the mind to reject.	As an example, many people believe in the Biblical story of Noah's flood: that the entire Earth was covered by water for forty days.
noLabel	Prime Minister Nehru of India voiced the heightened international concern in 1954, when he proposed the elimination of all nuclear test explosions worldwide.	However, within the context of the Cold War, skepticism about the capability to verify compliance with a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty posed a major obstacle to any agreement.
noLabel	The United States regularly sponsors the spraying of large amounts of toxic herbicides such as Roundup over the jungles of Central and South America as part of its drug eradication programs.	Many farmers who live below, and have nothing to do with the drug trade, are exposed to dangerous doses of toxic pesticides which cause severe health problems, birth defects, and deaths, not to mention destroying their legitimate crops, which for many are their sole source of income. 
noLabel	However, in October 2009, the subsequent Conservative leader, David Cameron stated that the under-representation of ethnic minorities women and ethnic minorities was "a real problem for parliament and for my party", and reversed his opposition to AWS .	In February 2010 he indicated that he would impose AWS because the pace of change towards the selection of more women MPs had been too slow .
noLabel	" It does not have to be accomplished via government action; for example, in the 1980s in the United States, President Reagan dismantled parts of affirmative action, but one report in the Chicago Tribune suggested that companies remained committed to the principle of equal opportunity regardless of government requirements .	In another instance, upper-middle class students taking the Scholastic Aptitude Test in the United States performed better, since they had had more "economic and educational resources to prepare for these test than others.
noLabel	The Ireland Act 1949 has the unusual status of recognising the Republic of Ireland, but affirming that its citizens are not citizens of a foreign country for the purposes of any law in the United Kingdom .	This act was initiated at a time when Ireland withdrew from the Commonwealth of Nations after declaring itself a republic .
noLabel	According to a study published in Social Indicator Research, even those who tend to be optimistic find it difficult to look on the bright side of things when unemployed.	Using interviews and data from German participants aged 16 to 94 – including individuals coping with the stresses of real life and not just a volunteering student population – the researchers determined that even optimists struggled with being unemployed .
noLabel	In a purely capitalist scenario, the last one holding the risk (like a game of musical chairs) is the one who faces the potential losses.	In the subprime crisis, however, national credit authorities (the Federal Reserve in the US) assumed the ultimate risk on behalf of the citizenry at large. 
noLabel	The Concordat of 1801 between Napoleon and the Church ended the de-Christianization period and established the rules for a relationship between the Catholic Church and the French State that lasted until it was abrogated by the Third Republic via the separation of church and state on 11 December 1905.	The persecution of the Church led to a counter-revolution known as the Revolt in the Vendée, whose suppression is considered by some to be the first modern genocide.
noLabel	Latinos are the fastest growing demographic group in the south, and African Americans are participating in a reverse migration to that region of the country.	Given these circumstances, it is inevitable that red southern states will turn to blue, as Obama won North Carolina and Virginia in 2008.
noLabel	The two countries have a shared history, both have previously been British Colonies and many Americans flocked to the Australian goldfields in the 19th century.	At a strategic level, the relationship really came to prominence in World War II, when the two nations worked extremely closely in the Pacific war against Japan, with General Douglas MacArthur undertaking his role as Supreme Allied Commander based in Australia, effectively having Australian troops and resources under his command.
noLabel	2002 June 26 – A 9th Circuit federal appeals court declared that reciting the Pledge of Allegiance in public schools is unconstitutional because "under God" (inserted into the Pledge in 1954) was a violation of the Establishment Clause, that expression not create the reasonable impression that the government is sponsoring, endorsing, or inhibiting religion generally, or favoring or disfavoring a particular religion.	This ruling was reconfirmed in February 2003, and applies only to the 9th Circuit (the following districts: Alaska, Arizona, Central, Eastern, Northern, and Southern California, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Eastern and Western Washington, Guam, and Northern Mariana Islands). 
noLabel	In 2003, Washington State enacted a statute banning the sale or rental to minors of video games containing "aggressive conflict in which the player kill, injures, or otherwise causes physical harm to a human form in the game who is depicted by dress or other recognizable symbols as a public law enforcement officer."	In 2004, this statute was subsequently declared an unconstitutional violation of the first amendment right to free speech in the Federal District Court case of Video Software Dealers Ass'n v. Maleng . 
noLabel	This led to the armies of the Qin gaining a critical edge over the other nations that adhered to old aristocratic systems of government.	Legalism, along with its pro-meritocratic ideals, remained a key part of Chinese philosophy and politics for another two millennia, although after the Qin Dynasty it was heavily diluted.
noLabel	Fear of or lack of trust in mainstream authority may also be a key contributor to social disorganisation; organised crime groups replicate such figures and thus ensure control over the counter-culture .	This theory has tended to view violent or anti-social behaviour by gangs as reflective of their social disorganisation rather than as a product or tool of their organisation .
noLabel	Believing with you that religion is a matter which lies solely between man and his god, that he owes account to none other for his faith or his worship, that the legitimate powers of government reach actions only, and not opinions, I contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole American people which declared that their "legislature" should "make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof," thus building a wall of separation between church and State.	Adhering to this expression of the supreme will of the nation in behalf of the rights of conscience, I shall see with sincere satisfaction the progress of those sentiments which tend to restore to man all his natural rights, convinced he has no natural right in opposition to his social duties. 
noLabel	The bill allows bets to be taken by in-State companies on poker games, casino games and slots but excludes sports betting, although it allows for the latter to be proposed, voted on and potentially regulated separately in due course .	However, a Fairleigh Dickinson University PublicMind poll in April 2009 showed only 26% of New Jersey voters approved of online sports-betting .
noLabel	" On June 25, 2008, Obama condemned United States Supreme Court decision Kennedy v. Louisiana, which outlawed the death penalty for a child rapist when the victim was not killed.	He said that states have the right to consider capital punishment, but cited concern about the possibility of unfairness in some sentences .
noLabel	During the 19th century tenements became the predominant type of new housing in Scotland's industrial cities, although they were very common in the Old Town in Edinburgh from the 15th century where they reached ten or eleven storeys high and in one case fourteen storeys.	Built of sandstone or granite, Scottish tenements are usually three to five storeys in height, with two to four flats on each floor.
noLabel	In a commentary to Brahma Sutras (III, 2, 38, and 41), a Vedantic text, Adi Sankara, an Indian philosopher who consolidated the doctrine of Advaita Vedanta, a sub-school of Vedanta, argues that the original karmic actions themselves cannot bring about the proper results at some future time; neither can super sensuous, non-intelligent qualities like adrsta—an unseen force being the metaphysical link between work and its result—by themselves mediate the appropriate, justly deserved pleasure and pain.	The fruits, according to him, then, must be administered through the action of a conscious agent, namely, a supreme being (Ishvara) . 
noLabel	Since December 1993, in Peru, it is illegal to smoke in any public enclosed places and any public transport vehicles (according to Law 25357 issued on Nov 27, 1991 and its regulations issued on Nov 25, 1993 by decree D.S.983-93-PCM).	There is also legislation restricting publicity, and it is also illegal (Law 26957 May 21, 1998) to sell tobacco to minors or directly advertise tobacco within 500m of schools (Law 26849 Jul 9, 1997). 
noLabel	The satellite failed, but the missile apparently flew without significant problems, therefore it is North Korea's longest-ranged operational missile with its 2,500 km maximum range.	According to some analysts, the Taepodong-1 could have an intercontinental range of nearly 6,000 km with a third stage and a payload of less than 100 kg .
noLabel	The power of the purse's earliest examples in a modern sense is by the English Parliament, which was given the exclusive power to levy taxes and thus could control the nation's cash flow.	Through this power, Parliament slowly subverted the executive strength of the crown; King Charles II was limited in his powers to engage in various war efforts by a refusal by Parliament to levy further taxes and his inability to secure loans from foreign nations, making him much less powerful.
noLabel	Facing mounting international calls to ease or lift their blockade in response to the Gaza flotilla raid, Egypt and Israel lessened the restrictions starting in June 2010.	Israel announced that it will allow all strictly civilian goods into Gaza while preventing certain weapons and what it designates as "dual-use" items from entering Gaza .
noLabel	Nine states have laws that require a second physician to be present during late-term abortion procedures in order to treat a fetus if born alive .	The Court has held that a doctor's right to practice is not infringed by requiring a second physician to be present at abortions performed after viability in order to assist in saving the life of the fetus .
noLabel	The Cuban Missile Crisis in the Autumn of 1962, in which the United States blockaded a Soviet attempt to put nuclear missiles on Cuba, created some anxiety about the possibility of imminent nuclear war and CND organised demonstrations on the issue.	But six months after the crisis, a Gallup Poll found that public worry about nuclear weapons had fallen back to its lowest point since 1957, and there was a view, disputed by CND supporters, that U.S. President John F. Kennedy's success in facing down Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev turned the British public away from CND. 
noLabel	On August 14, 2008, The United States and Poland announced a deal to implement the missile defense system in Polish territory, with a tracking system placed in the Czech Republic .	"The fact that this was signed in a period of very difficult crisis in the relations between Russia and the United States over the situation in Georgia shows that, of course, the missile defense system will be deployed not against Iran but against the strategic potential of Russia", Dmitry Rogozin, Russia's NATO envoy, said .
noLabel	Thus censors must work to prevent access to information even though they lack physical or legal control over the websites themselves.	This in turn requires the use of technical censorship methods that are unique to the Internet, such as site blocking and content filtering . 
noLabel	While there is no specific evidence to suggest that abuse among homeschoolers is more pervasive or severe than other institutions, in Washington, D.C. increased regulation of homeschooling was enacted in response to a mother who had withdrawn her four children from public school and was subsequently charged with their murder .	It was claimed that the homeschooling exemption in the District of Columbia allowed the abuse of the children to occur undetected .
noLabel	In the early 1960s, however, there mounted technical questions about how the systems would behave under combat conditions (when they were "mated", in military parlance), and this test was meant to dispel these concerns.	However, the warhead had to be somewhat modified before its use, and the missile was only a SLBM (and not an ICBM), so by itself it did not satisfy all concerns .
noLabel	Secularism is the principle of separation between government institutions and the persons mandated to represent the State from religious institutions and religious dignitaries.	In one sense, secularism may assert the right to be free from religious rule and teachings, and the right to freedom from governmental imposition of religion upon the people within a state that is neutral on matters of belief.
noLabel	Brown v. Entertainment Merchants Association (formerly titled as Schwarzenegger v. Entertainment Merchants Association) is a landmark Supreme Court of the United States case that struck down a California law enacted in 2005 that bans the sale of certain violent video games to children without parental supervision .	In a 7-2 decision, the Court upheld the lower court decisions and revoked the law, ruling that video games were protected speech under the First Amendment as other forms of media . 
noLabel	Rape was first recognised as crime against humanity when the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia issued arrest warrants based on the Geneva Conventions and Violations of the Laws or Customs of War.	Specifically, it was recognised that Muslim women in Foca (southeastern Bosnia and Herzegovina) were subjected to systematic and widespread gang rape, torture and sexual enslavement by Bosnian Serb soldiers, policemen, and members of paramilitary groups after the takeover of the city in April 1992 .
noLabel	In Miller v. Texas, , Franklin Miller was convicted and sentenced to be executed for shooting a police officer to death with an unlicensed handgun in violation of Texas law.	Miller sought to have his conviction overturned, claiming his Second Amendment rights were violated and that the Bill of Rights should be applied to state law.
noLabel	The Brady Act only applied to people who bought guns from licensed dealers, whereas most felons buy guns from a black market .	Restrictions, such as waiting periods, are opposed by many, who argue that they impose costs and inconveniences on legitimate gun purchasers, such as hunters .
noLabel	Football has never had a Lance Armstrong moment, in Britain or worldwide, and there are two conflicting ways to view that record of relative cleanliness.	The first, set out robustly this week by the World Anti-Doping Agency's president, John Fahey, and director-general, David Howman, is that the game's testing procedures are not rigorous enough.Fahey argued that Premier League players are tested too infrequently for EPO, the prime performance-enhancing drug injected into the bloodstream, favoured by Armstrong and other cyclists and athletes.
noLabel	Such a program has the potential to remove the bureaucratic inefficiencies of education in modern countries, and with the decreasing digital divide, help developing nations rapidly achieve a similar quality of education.	With an open format similar to Wikipedia, any teacher may upload their courses online and a feedback system will help students choose relevant courses of the highest quality.
noLabel	When the offender acts “against his better judgment”, he is liable to a maximum prison term of three years (§ 248).	According to § 251, defamation lawsuits must be initiated by the offended person, unless the defamatory act was directed to an indefinite group or a large number of persons, when it may also be prosecuted by public authorities . 
noLabel	These gun supporters also argue that gun bans would increase injuries and deaths if the gun bans apply to everyone (both criminals and non-criminals), based on the belief that compliance rates to the bans would be lower among criminals than non-criminals, thus implying a larger decrease in gun possession among non-criminals than criminals.	Instead, conservatives believe gun restrictions should be selectively applied to high-risk subsets of the population, but not to the least lethal subtypes of firearms, as this encourages substitution .
noLabel	There was generally low demand for English publications on the Continent, which was echoed by England's similar lack of desire for French works.	Languages commanding less of an international market – such as Danish, Spanish and Portuguese – found journal success more difficult, and more often than not, a more international language was used instead.
noLabel	"There is no pressing operational need to collect centrally separate information about the number of people in prison custody or otherwise detained who are subject to deportation action".. "It is our practice to complete the necessary administrative action associated with deportation before the person concerned has completed his sentence so that deportation can take place on release from custody.	Where it is not possible to do this for legal reasons such as an outstanding appeal, or where the person is not immediately removable for other reasons, consideration is given to whether they should be detained under Immigration Act powers or whether they can be granted temporary release" . 
noLabel	Smoking is harmful to the ovaries, potentially causing female infertility, and the degree of damage is dependent upon the amount and length of time a woman smokes.	Nicotine and other harmful chemicals in cigarettes interfere with the body’s ability to create estrogen, a hormone that regulates folliculogenesis and ovulation.
noLabel	According to one scholar, these figures "represent a small proportion of adoptions in China because many adopted children were adopted informally without official registrations.	International adoption rates climbed dramatically after the early 1990s, increasing to the U.S. alone from about 200 in 1992 to more than 7,900 in 2005 . 
noLabel	It has been argued that one of the problems with such testing is that there is often not enough time between the arrest and the bail decision to confirm positive results using GC/MS technology.	It has also been argued that such testing potentially implicates the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, the right to due process (including the prohibition against gathering evidence in a manner that shocks the conscience or constitutes outrageous government conduct), and the prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures contained in the Fourth Amendment . 
noLabel	For students who go abroad for education, if they can combine positive culture elements from two different cultures to their self-development, it would be a competitive advantage in their whole career.	Especially, with current process of global economics, people who owned different perspectives on cultures stand at a more competitive position in current world. 
noLabel	A famous and widely publicized case where fully automatic weapons were used in crime in the United States was during the Saint Valentine's Day massacre during the winter of 1929; this Prohibition-era gangster sub-machine gun mass murder led directly to the National Firearms Act of 1934, which was passed over a year after Prohibition had ended.	Since 1934, fully automatic weapons have been heavily regulated by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), but ones manufactured before May 19, 1986 are available to citizens who are not otherwise prohibited, in those states that do not prohibit them, upon paying a $200 transfer tax, submission of a full set of fingerprints on FBI Form FD-258, certification provided by the local chief of police, sheriff of the county, head of the State police, or State or local district attorney or prosecutor, and approval by the BATF .
noLabel	The New Century Foundation, a white nationalist organization founded by Jared Taylor, argues that blacks are more likely than whites to commit hate crimes, and that FBI figures inflate the number of hate crimes committed by whites by counting Hispanics as "white" .	Other analysts are sharply critical of the NCF's findings, referring to the criminological mainstream view that "Racial and ethnic data must be treated with caution.
noLabel	In 1998, Lewis traveled to the Poway, California, offices of one of those firms, ADCS, shortly before it received one of its first major government contracts.	He met with executives and got a briefing on the company, which was formed a few years earlier and sought government contracts to convert paper records to electronic format, including a project in the Panama Canal Zone .
noLabel	Some philosophers and world religions teach that morality is derived from or expressed by the dictates or commandments of a particular deity, and that acknowledgment of God or the gods is a major factor in motivating people towards moral behavior.	The German idealist philosopher Immanuel Kant stated the practical necessity for a belief in God in his Critique of Practical Reason.
noLabel	Beginning in the Enlightenment commencing in the 1600s, politicians and commentators began formulating theories of religious toleration and basing legal codes on the concept.	A distinction began to develop between civil tolerance, concerned with "the policy of the state towards religious dissent"., and ecclesiastical tolerance, concerned with the degree of diversity tolerated within a particular church .
noLabel	In the report published by human rights NGO Breaking the Silence in July 2009, two testimonies were dedicated to alleged cases of using Palestinian civilians as human shields who were forced to enter suspect buildings ahead of troops .	One of the testimonies were of the Golani Brigade soldier, who said that he had not seen Palestinians being used as human shields but had been told by his commanders that this occurred .
noLabel	On 23–27 June 2001 John Paul&nbsp;II visited Ukraine, another heavily Orthodox nation, at the invitation of the President of Ukraine and bishops of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church .	The Pope spoke to leaders of the All-Ukrainian Council of Churches and Religious Organisations, pleading for "open, tolerant and honest dialogue" .
noLabel	In a coruscating attack the British Olympic Association chairman Lord Moynihan, then embroiled in a failed battle to retain its bylaw banning drug cheats from the Games for life, said earlier this year that there was a need for a wholesale rethink.	He said today it was a "mistake" for anyone to cast aspersions on an athlete who had not failed a test, but repeated his call for "fundamental reform" at Wada. 
noLabel	Lucie Morillon, RWB's then-Washington representative, confirmed in an interview on 29 April 2005 that the organization had a contract with US State Department's Special Envoy to the Western Hemisphere, Otto Reich, who signed it in his capacity as a trustee for the Center for a Free Cuba, to inform Europeans about the repression of journalists in Cuba .	CounterPunch, a critic of RWB, cited Reich's involvement with the group as a source of controversy: when Reich headed the Reagan administration's Office of Public Diplomacy in the 1980s, the body partook in what its officials termed "White Propaganda"&nbsp;– covert dissemination of information to influence domestic opinion regarding US backing for military campaigns against Left-wing governments in Latin America .
noLabel	Ironically, it can also contribute to a public perception that private entities are more efficiently run reinforcing the political will to sell of public assets.	Again, due to asymmetric information, policy makers and the general public see a government owned firm that was a financial 'disaster' - miraculously turned around by the private sector (and typically resold) within a few years.
noLabel	In the history of the Catholic Church, laywomen and women in religious orders have played a variety of roles and the church has affected societal attitudes to women throughout the world in significant ways.	While Catholic women cannot become priests, prominent women in the life of the church have included everything from the mythical and historical figures of the Old Testament, to the Virgin Mary and female disciples of Jesus in the New Testament, to theologians, abbesses, monarchs, missionaries, mystics, martyrs, nurses, teachers and religious sisters. 
noLabel	Restrictions on commercial speech, defined as speech mainly in furtherance of selling a product, is subject to a lower level of scrutiny than other speech, although recently the court has taken steps to bring it closer to parity with other speech.	This is why the government can ban advertisements for cigarettes and false information on corporate prospectuses (which try to sell stock in a company).
noLabel	There was strong criticism of the pope for the controversy surrounding the alleged use of charitable social programs as a means of converting people in the Third World to Catholicism .	The Pope created an uproar in the Indian subcontinent when he suggested that a great harvest of faith would be witnessed on the subcontinent in the third Christian millennium .
noLabel	The Banu Hilal and Banu Ma'qil were a collection of Arab Bedouin tribes from the Arabian Peninsula who migrated westwards via Egypt between the 11th and 13th centuries.	Their migration strongly contributed to the Arabization and Islamization of the western Maghreb, which was until then dominated by Berber tribes.
noLabel	The power of a wave of water released from a tank was used for extraction of metal ores in a method known as hushing.	The method was first used at the Dolaucothi gold mine in Wales from 75 AD onwards, but had been developed in Spain at such mines as Las Medulas.
noLabel	A study for the National Institute for Research in the Amazon found that Hydroelectric reservoirs release a large pulse of carbon dioxide from above-water decay of trees left standing in the reservoirs, especially during the first decade after closing .	This elevates the global warming impact of the dams to levels much higher than would occur by generating the same power from fossil fuels .
noLabel	On October 21, 2003, the United States Senate passed the same bill by a vote of 64-34, with a number of Democrats joining in support.	The bill was signed by President George W. Bush on November 5, 2003, but a federal judge blocked its enforcement in several states just a few hours after it became public law.
noLabel	More to the point, Steve Courson mentioned that more research was needed to clean up the loopholes in drug testing -- the loopholes through which some N.F.L.	players, like so many athletes in the Olympics and other sports, are masking steroids and whatever other drugs they are using.
noLabel	It has been accepted that it is emphatically the province of the Court(s) to say what the law is, or means.	This is a crucial corollary and foundation to the concept of the Judicial Power; and its distinct and separate nature from the Executive Power possessed by the Crown itself, or its Ministers.
noLabel	For example, in the case of a health insurance company insuring an individual during a specific time-period, the final health of the individual can be thought of as the outcome.	The individual taking greater risks during the period would be ex-ante moral hazard whereas lying about a fictitious health problem to defraud the insurance company would be ex-post moral hazard.
noLabel	Habitat destruction vastly increases an area's vulnerability to natural disasters like flood and drought, crop failure, spread of disease, and water contamination .	On the other hand, a healthy ecosystem with good management practices will reduce the chance of these events happening, or will at least mitigate adverse impacts. 
noLabel	One of the Pinkerton labor spy tactics was persuading workers to quit the industrial union and instead join a craft union .	The defeat of the UBRE ended the last major attempt to organize North American railway workers into an industrial union .
noLabel	This is what he calls "identity tourism", a form of hopping from one person to another, for which there usually is a stereotypical discourse associated with the protagonist.	This is seen in the case of males who assume the personas of the female gender, and the character's representation of her gender being overly sexualized and/or passive, '…this tends to perpetuate and accentuate existing stereotypes of… women…' (Nakamura).
noLabel	In September 2001, Minister of Health Luis Solari launched a special commission into the activities of the Voluntary Surgical Contraception, initiating a Parliamentary commission tasked with enquiring into the "irregularities" of the program, and to put it on an acceptable footing.	In July 2002, its Final Report ordered by the Minister of Health revealed that between 1995 and 2000, 331,600 women were sterilized, while 25,590 men submitted to vasectomies .
noLabel	The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities supported the proposal, stating: "President Obama proposed a balanced and well-designed package today that would boost economic growth and jobs in the short run while stabilizing federal debt as a share of the economy after 2013.	By keeping federal debt held by the public from growing as a share of the economy, the President's proposal would meet the definition of a 'sustainable budget' that economists often use."
noLabel	There is wide variability both in the definition and in the proposed size of the Earth's carrying capacity, with estimates ranging from less than 1 to 1000 billion humans (1 trillion) .	Around two-thirds of the estimates fall in the range of 4 billion to 16 billion (with unspecified standard errors), with a median of about 10 billion . 
noLabel	Often, doping was carried out without the knowledge of the athletes, some of them as young as ten years of age.	It is estimated that around 10,000 former athletes bear the physical and mental scars of years of drug abuse, one of them is Rica Reinisch, a triple Olympic champion and world record-setter at the Moscow Games in 1980, has since suffered numerous miscarriages and recurring ovarian cysts . 
noLabel	The DSM-IV-TR criteria for a Disorder of Written Expression is writing skills (as measured by standardized test or functional assessment) that fall substantially below those expected based on the individual's chronological age, measured intelligence, and age appropriate education, (Criterion A).	This difficulty must also cause significant impairment to academic achievement and tasks that require composition of written text (Criterion B), and if a sensory deficit is present, the difficulties with writing skills must exceed those typically associated with the sensory deficit, (Criterion C). 
noLabel	Kleck showed that no more than a handful of the homicides that Kellermann studied were committed with guns belonging to the victim or members of his or her household, and thus it was implausible that victim household gun ownership contributed to their homicide.	Instead, the association that Kellermann found between gun ownership and victimization merely reflected the widely accepted notion that people who live in more dangerous circumstances are more likely to be murdered, but also were more likely to have acquired guns for self-protection prior to their death Kleck and others argue that guns being used to protect property, save lives, and deter crime without killing the criminal accounts for the large majority of defensive gun uses .
noLabel	There are three women commemorated as Doctors of the Church: Spanish mystic, St. Teresa of Ávila; Italian mystic St. Catherine of Siena and the French nun St. Thérèse de Lisieux.	Other Catholic women have risen to international prominence through charitable mission works and social justice campaigns—as with Nobel Peace Prize winner Mother Teresa, and anti-death penalty campaigner Sister Helen Prejean. 
noLabel	The exact nature of their subjection to the Spartans is not clear, but they seem to have served partly as a kind of military reserve, partly as skilled craftsmen and partly as agents of foreign trade .	Perioikoic hoplites served incrasingly with the Spartan army, explicitly at theBattle of Plataea, and although they may also have fulled functions such as the manufacture and repair of armour and weapons,  they were increasingly integrated into the combat units of the Spartan army as the Spartiate population declined .
noLabel	The theory begins with the premise that when a woman becomes pregnant she has the option of abortion, adoption, or parenthood; it argues, in the context of legally recognized gender equality, that in the earliest stages of pregnancy the putative (alleged) father should have the right to relinquish all future parental rights and financial responsibility, leaving the informed mother with the same three options .	This concept has been supported by a former president of the feminist organization National Organization for Women, attorney Karen DeCrow . 
noLabel	v. Claibourne, stating that “the rules of unfair competition” should protect the public from “fraud and deceit.”  In 1962, a California appellate court reiterated this rule by stating that the UCL extended “equitable relief to situations beyond the scope of purely business competition.”  In 1977, the legislature moved the UCL to the California Business and Professions Code § 17200 .	In 2004, California voters enacted Proposition 64, which limited UCL standing to individuals who suffered financial/property loss because of an unfair business practice .
noLabel	Others may feel government services and policies are not being dispensed in accordance with the Charter, and apply to lower-level courts for injunctions against the government (as was the case in Doucet-Boudreau v. Nova Scotia (Minister of Education)).	A government may also raise questions of rights by submitting reference questions to higher-level courts; for example, Prime Minister Paul Martin's government approached the Supreme Court with Charter questions as well as federalism concerns in the case Re Same-Sex Marriage (2004).
noLabel	Monarchy denies the people a basic right – Republicans believe that it should be a fundamental right of the people of any nation to elect their head of state and for every citizen to be eligible to hold that office.	It is argued such a head of state is more accountable to the people, and that such accountability to the people creates a better nation .
noLabel	Participants may choose to cheat in order to satisfy their desire to win, or in order to achieve an ulterior motive.	The widespread existence of gambling on the results of sports fixtures creates the motivation for match fixing, where a participant or participants deliberately work to ensure a given outcome.
noLabel	In nuclear strategy, a second strike capability is a country's assured ability to respond to a nuclear attack with powerful nuclear retaliation against the attacker.	To have such an ability (and to convince the opponent of its viability) is considered vital in nuclear deterrence, as otherwise the other side might be tempted to try to win a nuclear war in one massive first strike against the opponent's own nuclear forces.
noLabel	A 2006 review article by the Editorial Board of Population Research (), one of China's leading demography journals, argued that only an approach that makes the rights of women central can succeed in bringing down China's high gender ratio at birth and improve the survival rate of female infants and girls.	A section written by East China Normal University demography professor Ci Qinying, "Research on the Sex Ratio at Birth Should Take a Gender Discrimination Approach," argued that researchers must pay closer attention to gender issues in demography, and a human rights perspective in demographic research is crucial . 
noLabel	"the extirpation of Judaism" as opposed to the physical destruction of Jews if one changes "just one or two words" .	Critics of this view state that historians shouldn't change words if their documents contradict their claims, and consequently point out five instances where Eichmann unambiguously states "physical extermination" during his interrogation .
noLabel	The president of the Institute of the Middle East, Yevgeny Satanovsky, told Itar-Tass on February 6 that "The caricatures of Prophet Mohammad published as far back as last September angered the entire Islamic world but especially the countries where Iran’s influence is the strongest, and the apex of the conflict coincided precisely with the discussion of the Iranian nuclear dossier at the International Atomic Energy Agency.” This theory is echoed by Scientific Council of the Moscow Carnegie Centre member, Alexei Malashenko, who believes that “the fuss around the caricatures was made artificially."	That is, at a time when the Muslim world has no concerted position either on the Iranian nuclear program or Hamas, whose ideology is opposed by moderate Islamic regimes, the caricature uproar provides a “pretext for showing how coherent Muslims are.” .
noLabel	Expressive associations are groups that engage in activities protected by the First Amendment&mdash;speech, assembly, press, petitioning government for a redress of grievances, and the free exercise of religion.	In Roberts v. United States Jaycees, the Supreme Court held that associations may not exclude people for reasons unrelated to the group's expression.
noLabel	In the November election, Palin was outspent but victorious, defeating former Democratic governor Tony Knowles by a margin of 48.3% to 40.9% .	She became Alaska's first female governor, and, at the age of 42, the youngest governor in Alaskan history, the state's first governor to have been born after Alaska achieved U.S. statehood, and the first not to be inaugurated in Juneau (she chose to have the ceremony held in Fairbanks instead).
noLabel	Under the Compulsory Education Act (Cap 51), a child who fails to attend regularly as a student of a national primary school or a designated school/be home-schooled (where exemption is granted), the parents or guardian may be guilty of an offence under the Act.	The penalties provided in the Act for a person to be convicted for the offence are a fine not exceeding S$5,000, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or both .
noLabel	In addition, the large-scale use of disposable condoms has resulted in concerns over their environmental impact via littering and in landfills, where they can eventually wind up in wildlife environments if not incinerated or otherwise permanently disposed of first.	Polyurethane condoms in particular, given they are a form of plastic, are not biodegradable, and latex condoms take a very long time to break down.
noLabel	The first Christian Church Council in Jerusalem, held in approximately 50 AD decreed that circumcision was not a requirement for Gentile converts.	This became known as the "Apostolic Decree" and is one of the first acts differentiating Early Christianity from Rabbinic Judaism At roughly the same time Rabbinic Judaism made their circumcision requirement even stricter . 
noLabel	A key international convention relating to patents is the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property, initially signed in 1883.	The Paris Convention sets out a range of basic rules relating to patents, and although the convention does not have direct legal effect in all national jurisdictions, the principles of the convention are incorporated into all notable current patent systems.
noLabel	This was part of a move to modernise working processes at ports which had barely changed in their basics since 1962.	The general aims, as reported to the Home Affairs Select Committee, were to speed up passenger flows and to make better use of data supplied by carriers to identify facilitators and racketeers .
noLabel	No safe haven or bomb shelters existed, making this one of the rare conflicts where civilians had no place to flee .	The IAF had so far carried out 555 aerial sorties and 125 helicopter missions, and dozens of UAV flight hours were logged.
noLabel	Some Testing May Be Better Than No Testing When the White Sox players briefly rebelled against the steroid testing last month, it was the first public indication of disagreement among the players.	According to three members of the White Sox organization and a baseball executive, the rebellion occurred while two baseball administrators stood next to urinals in the clubhouse bathroom in Tucson, patiently waiting for more than an hour to conduct baseball's first round of tests for steroids.
noLabel	Utilitarian-Pragmatic Argument: according to this rationale, a society that protects private property is more effective and prosperous than societies that do not.	Innovation and invention in 19th century America has been said to be attributed to the development of the patent system .
noLabel	Classical economists and Austrian economists, on the other hand, believe that increased government spending exacerbates an economic contraction by shifting resources from the private sector, which they consider productive, to the public sector, which they consider unproductive.	According to Austrian economists, the reason the Great Depression lasted as long as it did was because of significant government spending and government regulation of the economy.
noLabel	This disorder can make it problematic for a person to learn as quickly or in the same way as someone who is not affected by a learning disability.	People with a learning disability have trouble performing specific types of skills or completing tasks if left to figure things out by themselves or if taught in conventional ways. 
noLabel	One Member of Parliament described it as "one of the longest (and daftest) grievances in history" with anyone over the age of 18 associated with rugby league being banned forever from rugby union .	This antagonism has abated since 1995 when the International Rugby Board, rugby union's international governing body, "opened" rugby union to professionalism.
noLabel	A non-curriculum, non-instructional method of teaching was advocated by Neil Postman and Charles Weingartner in their book Teaching as a Subversive Activity.	In Inquiry education students are encouraged to ask questions which are meaningful to them, and which do not necessarily have easy answers; teachers are encouraged to avoid giving answers . 
noLabel	Ice hockey is Britain's largest indoor spectator sport, and the only team sport to have a UK-wide league with at least one team from every nation.	It has a long history in the UK and it is reasonably well supported, with the larger teams attracting thousands of fans to every game.
noLabel	A succession of English thinkers was at the forefront at the beginning of the discussion the idea of a right to freedom of expression, among them John Milton (1608–74) and John Locke (1632–1704).	Locke established the individual as the unit of value and the bearer of rights to life, liberty, property and the pursuit of happiness.
noLabel	The role-playing video game genre began in the mid-1970s on mainframe computers, inspired by pen-and-paper role-playing games such as Dungeons & Dragons .	Several other sources of inspiration for early role-playing video games also included tabletop wargames, sports simulation games, adventure games such as Colossal Cave Adventure, fantasy writings by authors such as J. R. R. Tolkien, traditional strategy games such as chess, and ancient epic literature dating back to The Epic of Gilgamesh which followed the same basic structure of setting off in various quests in order to accomplish goals . 
noLabel	Before being accepted to a higher education programme in Sweden, all applicants must demonstrate a minimum proficiency in Swedish and English by either taking 2 years of Swedish and English or passing Swedish B and English A .	For international applicants, the TISUS, or Test in Swedish for University Studies, is an international exam that can be taken to demonstrate proficiency in Swedish.
noLabel	By the late 1970s, citizens in the US and USSR (and indeed the entire world) had been living with the concept of MAD for about a decade, and it became deeply ingrained into the popular culture.	Such an exchange would have killed many millions of individuals directly, and possibly induced a nuclear winter which could have led to the death of a large portion of humanity and - potentially - the collapse of global civilization. 
noLabel	Common voting systems are majority rule, proportional representation or plurality voting with a number of variations and methods such as first-past-the-post or preferential voting.	The study of formally defined voting systems is called social choice theory or voting theory, a subfield of political science, economics, or mathematics. 
noLabel	Critics of Holocaust denial assert that there is much material which shows that it is unreasonable to claim that the absence of a written order means there was no policy of genocide.	These include sources which reveal Hitler's desire to eradicate Jewry, and that the order to do this when he attained power did indeed originate from him . 
noLabel	Japan grants, and the United States of America accepts, the right, upon the coming into force of the Treaty of Peace and of this Treaty, to dispose United States land, air and sea forces in and about Japan.	Such forces may be utilized to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security in the Far East and to the security of Japan against armed attack from without, including assistance given at the express request of the Japanese Government to put down largescale internal riots and disturbances in Japan, caused through instigation or intervention by an outside power or powers.
noLabel	Opponents of this right of revolution theory also argue that the intent of the Second Amendment was the need to avoid a standing army by ensuring the viability of people's militias, and that the concept of rebellious private citizens or rogue militias as a check on governmental tyranny was clearly not part of the Second Amendment.	As historian Don Higginbotham notes, the well-regulated militia protected by the Second Amendment was more likely to put down rebellions than participate in them .
noLabel	Additionally, poor and minority students have disproportionately less access to high-quality early childhood education, which has been shown to have a strong impact on early learning and development.	One study found that although black children are more likely to attend preschool than white children, they may experience lower-quality care .
noLabel	It has been argued that lobbyists can help Congress monitor this activity by possibly raising "red flags" about proposed administrative rulings .	Further, congresspersons can quickly gauge where they stand about a proposed administrative ruling simply by seeing which lobbying groups support the proposal, and which oppose it . 
noLabel	The World Wars, and the huge losses of life and gross abuses of human rights that took place during them, were a driving force behind the development of modern human rights instruments.	The League of Nations was established in 1919 at the negotiations over the Treaty of Versailles following the end of World War I.
noLabel	In some areas the suppression of forest fires for hundreds of years has resulted in large single aged and single species forest stands.	The logging of small clear cuts and or prescribed burning, actually increases the biodiversity in these areas by creating a greater variety of tree stand ages and species.
noLabel	When it came time for the Orange Bowl and Sugar Bowl to make a second pick, both wanted Pac-10 co-champion USC.	However, a BCS rule stated that if two bowls wanted the same team, the bowl with the higher payoff had priority .
noLabel	Australia was intensely hostile to Chinese immigrants (thousands of whom came to the gold fields), and tried to block their entry until well after World War II.	When the nation of Australia formed in 1901, the national policy became "White Australia", and quickly most of the Pacific Islanders were deported, while the remainder were forced out of the sugar fields where they had worked for decades . 
noLabel	According to a 2004 study, current pregnancies were termed "desired and timely" by 58% of respondents, while 23% described them as "desired, but untimely", and 19% said they were "undesired".	As of 2004, the share of women of reproductive age using hormonal or intrauterine birth control methods was about 46% (29% intrauterine, 17% hormonal) .
noLabel	Manufacture stopped for many years; however, the Life Extension Program required it to start up again – Y-12 currently being the sole producer (the "unique facility" referenced).	Manufacture involves the moderately toxic and moderately volatile solvent called acetonitrile, which presents a hazard for workers (causing three evacuations in March 2006 alone) .
noLabel	(Willis-Leon has disputed the amount of her compensation — which was calculated from government records by the Center for Responsive Politics, a political watchdog group — but would not say what the correct amount was) .	Of the $113,700 in revenues, $46,000 came from Letitia White, her husband Richard, and small defense contractors represented by Copeland Lowery . 
noLabel	These systems were used to launch satellites, such as Sputnik, and to propel the Space Race, but they were primarily developed to create Intercontinental Ballistic Missiles (ICBMs) that could deliver nuclear weapons anywhere on the globe.	Development of these systems continued throughout the Cold War&mdash;though plans and treaties, beginning with the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty (SALT I), restricted deployment of these systems until, after the fall of the Soviet Union, system development essentially halted, and many weapons were disabled and destroyed (see nuclear disarmament). 
noLabel	" Palin was the only prospective running mate who had a face-to-face interview with McCain to discuss joining the ticket that week .	Nonetheless, Palin's selection was a surprise to many because a main criticism he had of Obama was his lack of experience, and speculation had centered on other candidates, such as Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty, Louisiana Governor Bobby Jindal, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, U.S.
noLabel	As controversy grew regarding the alleged placement of nuclear weapons on Okinawa, fears intensified on the possible escalation of the Vietnam War.	Okinawa was then perceived, by some inside Japan, as a potential target for China, should the communist government feel threatened by the United States .
noLabel	In terms of security, open source may allow hackers to know about the weaknesses or loopholes of the software more easily than closed-source software.	It is depended of control mechanisms in order to create effective performance of autonomous agents who participate in virtual organizations .
noLabel	In December 2003, The Global Commission on International Migration (GCIM) was launched with the support of Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan and several countries, with an independent 19-member commission, a threefold mandate and a finite lifespan ending December 2005.	Its report, based on regional consultation meetings with stakeholders and scientific reports from leading international migration experts, was published and presented to Kofi Annan on 5 October 2005 . 
noLabel	About 27 percent of the irrigated land in the United States overlies this aquifer system, which yields about 30 percent of the nation's ground water used for irrigation.	In addition, the aquifer system provides drinking water to 82 percent of the people who live within the aquifer boundary .
noLabel	Although the test has been widely applied, especially among cyclists and triathletes, it is controversial, and its accuracy has been called into question.	The principal criticism has been toward the ability of the test to distinguish pharmaceutical EPO from other proteins that may normally be present in the urine of an athlete after strenuous exercise. 
noLabel	North American fighters tend to favor a more balanced stance, facing the opponent almost squarely, while many European fighters stand with their torso turned more to the side.	The positioning of the hands may also vary, as some fighters prefer to have both hands raised in front of the face, risking exposure to body shots. 
noLabel	Katherine Briggs and her daughter Isabel Myers developed a psychological test that reproducibly identifies sixteen distinct human temperaments, building on work by Jung.	A wide class of temperaments ("Sensors", half by category, 60% of the general population) prefer to use concrete information such as facts and procedures.
noLabel	Russia has stored its chemical weapons (or the required chemicals) which it declared within the CWC at 8 locations: in Gorny (Saratov Oblast) (2.9% of the declared stockpile by mass) and Kambarka (Udmurt Republic) (15.9%) stockpiles already have been destroyed.	In Shchuchye (Kurgan Oblast) (13.6%), Maradykovsky (Kirov Oblast) (17.4%) and Leonidovka (Penza Oblast) (17.2%) destruction takes place, while installations are under construction in Pochep (Bryansk Oblast) (18.8%) and Kizner (Udmurt Republic) (14.2%) .
noLabel	Some scholars have indicated that the phrase War on Drugs is propaganda cloaking an extension of earlier military or paramilitary operations .	Others have argued that large amounts of "drug war" foreign aid money, training, and equipment actually goes to fighting leftist insurgencies and is often provided to groups who themselves are involved in large-scale narco-trafficking, such as corrupt members of the Colombian military .
noLabel	The numbers of requests for “authority to remove” that were passed to Croydon rose and added yet more pressure to the creaking system.	The delays in the process were exploited by legal advisors who realised that any removal could be delayed by continued representation, renewed appeals and applications to stay, threats of Judicial Review and, last but by no means least, after 2000, Human Rights Act appeals .
noLabel	The reality behind such marriages was an alliance between an imperial prince and a Fujiwara lord, his father-in-law or grandfather, the latter with his resources supporting the prince to the throne and most often controlling the government.	These arrangements created the tradition of regents (Sesshō and Kampaku), with these positions allowed to be held only by a Fujiwara sekke lord. 
noLabel	The DS's two screens, one of which was touch-sensitive, proved extremely popular with consumers, especially young children and middle-aged gamers, who were drawn to the device by Nintendo's Nintendogs and Brain Age series, respectively.	While the PSP attracted a significant portion of veteran gamers, the DS allowed Nintendo to continue its dominance in handheld gaming.
noLabel	ATF officials report that 90% of the firearms recovered in Mexico came from U.S. gun dealers, and about 55% of these guns were identified as assault rifles .	However, the Department of Justice, Office of the Inspector General reported only 18,585 seized Mexican firearms were successfully traced to the United States in the last five years (2005–2009) out of 66,028 firearms submitted by Mexico to ATF for tracing .
noLabel	Thus fire could not exist without the corruption of what it consumes; the lion must slay the ass in order to live, and if there were no wrong doing, there would be no sphere for patience and justice.	God is said (as in Isaiah 45) to be the author of evil in the sense that the corruption of material objects in nature is ordained by Him, as a means for carrying out the design of the universe; and on the other hand, the evil which exists as a consequence of the breach of Divine laws is in the same sense due to Divine appointment; the universe would be less perfect if its laws could be broken with impunity.
noLabel	A Pennsylvania court ruled in April 2007 that voting machine certification was the result of what Judge Rochelle Friedman called "deficient examination criteria" which "do not approximate those that are customary in the information technology industry for systems that require a high level of security".	The court ruled that voters have a right under the commonwealth's constitution to reliable and secure voting systems and can challenge the use of electronic voting machines "that provide no way for Electors to know whether their votes will be recognized" through voter verification or independent audit .
noLabel	Despite minor legal improvements regarding the death penalty and urban property confiscation, the government stalled or even reversed previous reforms related to the rule of law, while security forces resorted to extralegal forms of repression.	Growing public frustration over corruption and injustice fueled tens of thousands of protests and several large outbursts of online criticism during the year.
noLabel	During the 1990s, console RPGs had become increasingly dominant, exerting a greater influence on computer RPGs than the other way around .	Console RPGs had eclipsed computer RPGs for some time, though computer RPGs began making a comeback towards the end of the decade with interactive choice-filled adventures . 
noLabel	The biblical word Shoah (שואה) (also spelled Sho'ah and Shoa), meaning "calamity", became the standard Hebrew term for the Holocaust as early as the 1940s, especially in Europe and Israel .	Shoah is preferred by many Jews for a number of reasons, including the theologically offensive nature of the word "holocaust", which they take to refer to the Greek pagan custom . 
noLabel	The Gaza Strip is a coastal strip of land on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea bordering Egypt and Israel.	Israel controls Gaza's airspace and territorial waters and restricts the movement of people or goods in or out of Gaza .
noLabel	: applications to stay longer in the UK were dealt with by B1 Division; if there was an appeal a separate appeals file would be raised and tied to the first file; if an asylum claim was being considered or deportation action was being considered then more files would be added and so on.	These ever weightier files would make a stately progress from one area of IND to another by hand – conveyed by a battalion of messengers and their movements recorded on card indices, until an electronic tracking system was introduced in the 1980s.
noLabel	In the marketplace, the price of a good or service helps communicate consumer demand to producers and thus directs the allocation of resources toward satisfaction of consumers as well as investors.	In a free market, the system of prices is the emergent result of a vast number of voluntary transactions, rather than of political decrees as in a controlled market.
noLabel	If I make a mistake, please ‘kirrect’ me..Wojtyła became the 264th Pope according to the chronological list of popes, the first non-Italian in 455 years .	At only 58 years of age, he was the youngest pope since Pope Pius IX in 1846, who was 54 .
noLabel	Nintendo updated their line with the Nintendo DS Lite in 2006, the Nintendo DSi in 2008 (Japan) and 2009 (Americas and Europe), and the Nintendo DSi XL while Sony updated the PSP in 2007 and again with the smaller PSP Go in 2009.	Nokia withdrew their N-Gage platform in 2005 but reintroduced the brand as a game-oriented service for high-end smartphones on April 3, 2008 . 
noLabel	Chanakya's student Chandragupta Maurya, founder of the Maurya Empire in India, made use of assassinations, spies and secret agents, which are described in Chanakya's Arthasastra.	The ancient Egyptians had a thoroughly developed system for the acquisition of intelligence, and the Hebrews used spies as well, as in the story of Rahab.
noLabel	Phimosis is an inability to retract the foreskin fully, is harmless in infancy and pre-pubescence, occurring in about 8% of boys at age 10.	According to the British Medical Association, treatment (topical steroid cream and/or manual stretching) does not need to be considered until age 19. 
noLabel	The principle of universal jurisdiction also applies to the enforcement of grave breaches when the UN Security Council asserts its authority and jurisdiction from the UN Charter to apply universal jurisdiction.	The UNSC did this via the International Criminal Court when they established the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to investigate and/or prosecute alleged violations.
noLabel	Paul broke with his party by voting against the PATRIOT Act in 2001; he also voted against its 2005 enactment .	He has spoken against federal use of what he defines as torture and what he sees as an abuse of executive authority during the Iraq War to override Constitutional rights . 
noLabel	(e) But if A says-"I am not surprised that Z's book is foolish and indecent, for he is a weak man and a libertine."	A is not within this exception, inasmuch as the opinion which he expresses of Z's character is an opinion not founded on Z's book. 
noLabel	If the patient were to experience a negative outcome in association with the medical procedure or treatment, he or she would then seek compensation through binding arbitration, rather than through a medical malpractice trial before a jury.	Paul claims that “using insurance, private contracts, and binding arbitration to resolve medical disputes benefits patients, who receive full compensation in a timelier manner than under the current system,” as well as physicians and hospitals, since their litigation costs, and malpractice insurance premiums, would be markedly reduced .
noLabel	The problem, as I see it, is that access to the public spheres, specifically the commercial sphere, often depends on being comfortable with the norms of white society.	If a significant number of black children aren't comfortable with them, it isn't by choice: It's because they were isolated from those norms.
noLabel	In 1990, multi-party elections were held and the National League for Democracy (NLD, the main opposition party) emerged as the comprehensive winner.	However, the military junta refused to transfer power and placed NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi under house arrest for six years.
noLabel	It describes various contraceptive pessaries, including acacia gum, which recent research has confirmed to have spermatocidal qualities and is still used in contraceptive jellies.	Other birth control methods mentioned in the papyrus include the application of gummy substances to cover the "mouth of the womb" (i.e.
noLabel	Sport (or, in the United States, sports) is all forms of competitive physical activity which, through casual or organised participation, aim to use, maintain or improve physical fitness and provide entertainment to participants .	Hundreds of sports exist, from those requiring only two participants, through to those with hundreds of simultaneous participants, either in teams or competing as individuals. 
noLabel	The next country to adopt an official policy of multiculturalism after Canada was Australia, a country with similar immigration situations had similar policies, for example the formation of the Special Broadcasting Service .	The White Australia Policy was quietly dismantled after World War II by various changes to immigration policy, the full political introduction of official policies of multiculturalism was not until 1972 .
noLabel	His conclusion, after carrying out elaborate multivariate statistical studies, is that a complex relationship exists between religiosity and homicide with some dimensions of religiosity encouraging homicide and other dimensions discouraging it."	Meanwhile, other studies seem to show positive links in the relationship between religiosity and moral behavior — for example, surveys suggesting a positive connection between faith and altruism .
noLabel	Schenck v. United States, , was a United States Supreme Court decision that upheld the Espionage Act of 1917 and concluded that a defendant did not have a First Amendment right to express freedom of speech against the draft during World War I.	Ultimately, the case established the "clear and present danger" test, which lasted until 1969 when protection for speech was raised in Brandenburg v. Ohio to "Imminent lawless action".
noLabel	Subsequently, the Philadelphia Convention proposed in 1787 to grant Congress exclusive power to raise and support a standing army and navy of unlimited size .	Anti-federalists objected to the shift of power from the states to the federal government, but as adoption of the Constitution became more and more likely, they shifted their strategy to establishing a bill of rights that would put some limits on federal power . 
noLabel	Oral and written communication is generally easier to learn, adapt and deal with in the business world for the simple fact that each language is unique.	The one difficulty that comes into play is Paralanguage, “Language refers to what is said, Paralanguage refers to how it is said.
noLabel	Post World War II, with the Australian Dream apartment buildings went out of vogue and flats were seen as accommodation only for the poor.	Walk-up "flats" (without a lift) of two to three storeys however were common in the middle suburbs of cities for lower income groups. 
noLabel	Jean Jacques Rousseau argued vehemently against professional armies, feeling it was the right and privilege of every citizen to participate to the defense of the whole society and a mark of moral decline to leave this business to professionals.	He based this view on the development of the Roman republic, which came to an end at the same time as the Roman army changed from a conscript to professional force .
noLabel	Drug testing is more likely to catch cannabis users, since THC metabolites are fat soluble and have a longer duration in the body than those of other drugs which are widely considered more dangerous such as cocaine and heroin.	This can potentially lead would-be cannabis users to switch to harder drugs, most of which generally have significantly shorter detection times and/or are less likely to be tested for .
noLabel	The National League for Democracy, which overwhelmingly won the previous 1990 elections but were never allowed to take power, decided not to participate.	Nonetheless, some senior members have formed the National Democratic Force to contest the elections, claiming that a boycott would play into the hands of the government . 
noLabel	Alfred Zehe was arrested in Boston in 1983 after being caught in a government-run sting operation in which he had reviewed classified U.S. government documents in Mexico and East Germany.	His attorneys contended without success that the indictment was invalid, arguing that the Espionage Act does not cover the activities of a foreign citizen outside the United States .
noLabel	They reported that, among racial groups, "circumcised Blacks showed similar rates of HIV as uncircumcised Blacks, (OR: 0.8, p = 0.4) however other racial groups showed a strong protective effect, (OR: 0.3, p = 0.01)."	They added "When the data are further stratified by age of circumcision, there is a slight protective effect between early circumcision and HIV among Blacks, OR: 0.7, p = 0.4."
noLabel	What is clear is that from early on there were marked differences of wealth within the state, and these became even more serious after the law of Epitadeus, passed at some time after the Peloponnesian War, removed the legal prohibition of the gift or bequest of land .	By the mid-fifth century, land had become concentrated in the hands of a tiny elite, and the notion of all Spartan citizens being "equals" had become a farce.
noLabel	Most academic institutions reflect the divide of the disciplines in their administrative structure, being divided internally into departments or programs in various fields of study.	Each department is typically administered and funded separately by the academic institution, though there may be some overlap and faculty members, research and administrative staff may in some cases be shared among departments.
noLabel	The nature of the Internet facilitates not only the participation of more people, but also of a more heterogeneous group of people.	Page stated "The onward rush of electronic communications technology will presumably increase the diversity of available ideas and the speed and ease with which they fly about and compete with each other" .
noLabel	Mohammad Ali Hosseini, a spokesman for the ministry of foreign affairs said Fitna was "heinous", blasphemous, and that its release "is indicative of the continuation of the evilness and deep vengeance such Western nationals have against Islam and Muslims.	" Iran's official government spokesperson, Gholam-Hossein Elham, said that "The new wave of the fight against Islam and promoting Islamophobia, which was started by the U.S., has so far opposite effects in the world of Islam as well as other parts of the globe.
noLabel	In the 1920s a wide national consensus sharply restricted the overall inflow of immigrants, especially those from southern and eastern Europe.	The second Ku Klux Klan, which flourished in the U.S. in the 1920s, used strong nativist rhetoric, but the Catholics led a counterattack . 
noLabel	Most hate crimes in the United States target victims on the basis of race or ethnicity (for Federal purposes, crimes targeting Hispanics based on that identity are considered based on ethnicity).	Leading forms of bias cited in the FBI's Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) Program, based on law enforcement agency filings are: anti-black, anti-Jewish, anti-white, anti-homosexual, and anti-Hispanic bias in that order in both 2004 and 2005 .
noLabel	With regards to oral sex, it is almost always the boys who receive it and the girls who give it .	When girls provide oral sex "they do so without pleasure, usually to please their boyfriend or to avoid the possibility of pregnancy.
noLabel	Others caution against unnecessary use of fetal anesthetic during abortion, as it poses potential health risks to the pregnant woman .	David Mellor and colleagues have noted that the fetal brain is already awash in naturally occurring chemicals that keep it sedated and anesthetized until birth .
noLabel	If an inventor takes an existing, patented mouse trap design, adds a new feature to make an improved mouse trap, and obtains a patent on the improvement, he or she can only legally build his or her improved mouse trap with permission from the patent holder of the original mouse trap, assuming the original patent is still in force.	On the other hand, the owner of the improved mouse trap patent can exclude the original patent owner from using the improvement. 
noLabel	When the extreme danger intrinsic to nuclear war and the possession of nuclear weapons became apparent to all sides during the Cold War, a series of disarmament and nonproliferation treaties were agreed upon between the United States, the Soviet Union, and several other states throughout the world.	Many of these treaties involved years of negotiations, and seemed to result in important steps in arms reductions and reducing the risk of nuclear war. 
noLabel	This amended bill was titled the U.S.A Patriot Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005 and it was signed into law on March 9, 2006 .	This bill also required three Inspector General investigations that lead to the discovery of exigent letters and National Security Letter abuses . 
noLabel	The view that a coherent definition of a deity must be put forward before the question of the existence of a deity can be meaningfully discussed.	If the chosen definition is not coherent, the ignostic holds the noncognitivist view that the existence of a deity is meaningless or empirically untestable .
noLabel	The protestors stopped at seeing a sign hung outside by Maung Oo, which denounced those who tortured and killed monks and civilians.	Ni Ni Mai stood in the doorway and asked the protestors if 'they really agreed with the killing of monks and civilians in Rangoon' at which the protestors stopped chanting slogans and some of them dropped their placards.
noLabel	Former tests at the end of Key Stage 3 were abandoned after the 2008 tests, where severe problems emerged concerning the marking procedures.	Now at the end of Key Stage 1 and Key Stage 3, progress is examined via individual teacher assessment against the National Curriculum Attainment Targets for all subjects. 
noLabel	It would be outrageous for a general election result to be skewed by a fallible registration process.A second change is suggested on Wednesday by the Electoral Commission.	In 2015, all those who go to a polling station ΓÇô still the large majority of voters ΓÇô will have to produce ID to get a ballot paper.
noLabel	However, the concept of absolutism was so ingrained in Russia that the Russian Constitution of 1906 still described the czar as an autocrat.	Still, Russia became the last European country to abolish absolutism and the only one to do so as late as the 20th century (the Ottoman Empire drafted its first constitution in 1877). 
noLabel	However, in poor countries like Bangladesh, working children are essential for survival in many families, as they were in our own heritage until the late 19th century.	So, while the struggle to end child labour is necessary, getting there often requires taking different routes—and, sadly, there are many political obstacles . 
noLabel	Through sources in the Manhattan Project, notably Klaus Fuchs, the Soviet intelligence obtained important information on the progress of the United States atomic bomb effort.	Intelligence reports were shown to the head of the Soviet atomic project director Igor Kurchatov and had a significant impact on the direction of his own team's research. 
noLabel	The growth in wind energy can largely be accredited to the public policy's providing incentives and technological advances, making wind energy one of the few cost competitive renewable energy options .	Although there has been a significant decrease in the cost per kilowatt hour of wind energy since the 1980s, wind energy only accounts for a small portion of the U.S.'s electrical demand . 
noLabel	The merger of the two Canadas in 1840, with political power divided evenly between the former Lower and Upper Canadas, created a political structure that eventually exacerbated tensions between the French and English-speaking populations and which would prove an enduring feature of Canadian identity.	As the population of English-speaking and largely Protestant Canada West grew to surpass that of majority French-speaking Catholic Canada East, the population of Canada West began to feel that its interests were becoming subservient to the francophone population of Canada East.
noLabel	On February 24, 2006 Kaltio, a culture magazine in northern Finland, got publicity for publishing cartoon of a masked prophet Muhammad which lampooned Finnish political elites' reaction during the cartoon debate.	After that some large financial institutions withdrew their advertisements from Kaltio and the board of the magazine fired their longtime editor Jussi Vilkuna .
noLabel	Other complications include concealed penis, urinary fistulas, chordee, cysts, lymphedema, ulceration of the glans, necrosis of all or part of the penis, hypospadias, epispadias and impotence .	Kaplan stated "Virtually all of these complications are preventable with only a modicum of care" and "most such complications occur at the hands of inexperienced operators who are neither urologists nor surgeons.
noLabel	More recent campaigning by anti-nuclear groups has related to several nuclear power plants including the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Power Plant, Indian Point Energy Center, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Pilgrim Nuclear Generating Station, Salem Nuclear Power Plant, and Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant .	There have also been campaigns relating to the Y-12 Nuclear Weapons Plant, the Idaho National Laboratory, Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository proposal, the Hanford Site, the Nevada Test Site, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and transportation of nuclear waste from the Los Alamos National Laboratory . 
noLabel	In rhetoric, the demonstration of one's merit regarding mastery of a particular subject is an essential task most directly related to the Aristotelian term Ethos.	The equivalent Aristotelian conception of meritocracy is based upon aristocratic or oligarchical structures rather than in the context of the modern state . 
noLabel	The Egyptians, Greeks, and Hebrews recognized a religious "right of asylum," protecting criminals (or those accused of crime) from legal action to some extent.	This principle was later adopted by the established Christian church, and various rules developed to qualify for protection and just how much protection it was. 
noLabel	Although the Australian monarch is Queen Elizabeth II, also British monarch and Governor of the Church of England, her Australian title is unrelated to her religious office and she has no role in the Anglican Church of Australia.	The prohibition against religious tests has allowed former Anglican Archbishop of Brisbane Peter Hollingworth to be appointed Governor-General, the highest domestic constitutional officer; however, this was criticized . 
noLabel	Agriculture (also called farming or husbandry) is the cultivation of animals, plants, fungi, and other life forms for food, fiber, and other products used to sustain life .	Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization, whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that nurtured the development of civilization.
noLabel	In 1976, then Prime Minister Miki Takeo announced defence spending should be maintained within 1% of Japan's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), a ceiling that was observed until 1986 .	Currently, Japan's military budget is maintained at about 3% of the national budget; about half is spent on personnel costs while the rest is for new weapons programs, maintenance and operating costs .
noLabel	Large metropolitan areas have been the destination of most resettlements, with 72% of all resettlements between 1983 and 2004 going to 30 locations.	The historical gateways for resettled refugees have been California (specifically Los Angeles, Orange County, San Jose, and Sacramento), the Mid-Atlantic region (New York in particular), the Midwest (specifically Chicago and Minneapolis-St. Paul) and Providence, Rhode Island.
noLabel	This rests on an acceptance in moral realism - the belief that there are objective moral truths - which has been supported by the appearance of objectivity in ethics.	For example, expressing an obligation is stronger than expressing a preference, and certain moral principles, such as "torturing babies for fun is wrong", are generally regarded as fact . 
noLabel	The Conventions apply to all cases of armed conflict between two or more signatory nations, even in the absence of a declaration of war.	This language was added in 1949 to accommodate situations that have all the characteristics of war without the existence of a formal declaration of war, such as a police action .
noLabel	Author Israel Stockman-Shomron asserts that many newspaper editorials have used Nazi imagery articles that criticize Israel, such as the use of terms such as lebensraum, "final solution", "Hitler's work", and "blitzkrieg".	Newspapers and authors cited by Stockman-Shomron include William Pfaff, The Christian Science Monitor, The Washington Post, The New York Times, and Edwin Yoder . 
noLabel	Gun laws in Honduras took official form under the Act on the Control of Firearms, Ammunition, Explosives and Other Related Material of 2000, which sets limitations on what firearms and calibers are permitted and which are prohibited for civilian use .	In April 2002, the National Arms Registry was formed, requiring all citizens to register their firearms with the Ministry of Defense .
noLabel	Before California votes, each week’s contest would choose about 12% of the delegates necessary for the nomination, from a single state, or a group of contiguous states.	After California votes, the contests would award more delegates in larger groups of states, since the positions of the hopefuls would be better known by then. 
noLabel	disturbance rates and spatial heterogeneity of the environment, others have indicated that the time since disturbance and the habitat's carrying capacity can cause differing relationships .	Each ecological context should yield not only a different relationship, but a different contribution to the relationship due to diversity and to composition.
noLabel	These four wishes are the desire for new experiences, the desire for recognition, the desire for domination, and the desire for security.	Combined with the cultural values of a pre-existing situation, the four wishes give rise to certain attitudes which are subjectively defined meanings and shared experience, strongly emphasised and embodied in specific institutions.
noLabel	The cartoon protests, he said, show that German society must reach a consensus on its "foundational values and a minimal standard of value orientation."	The 'constitutional patriotism' (proposed by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas) would not suffice, since all constitutions are based on non-random cultural assumptions.
noLabel	Parliamentary democracy is a representative democracy where government is appointed by representatives as opposed to a 'presidential rule' wherein the President is both head of state and the head of government and is elected by the voters.	Under a parliamentary democracy, government is exercised by delegation to an executive ministry and subject to ongoing review, checks and balances by the legislative parliament elected by the people .
noLabel	Should India and Pakistan join such a convention, they would have to agree to halt the production of fissile materials for weapons and to accept international verification on their relevant nuclear facilities (enrichment and reprocessing plants).	It appears that India is now prepared to join negotiations regarding such a Cut-off Treaty, under the UN Conference on Disarmament. 
noLabel	The plurality voting system is a single-winner voting system often used to elect executive officers or to elect members of a legislative assembly which is based on single-member constituencies.	This voting method is also used in multi-member constituencies in what is referred to as an exhaustive counting system where one member is elected at a time and the process repeated until the number of vacancies is filled. 
noLabel	Such theories were vividly described by the writer Émile Zola (1840–1902), who started publishing in 1871 a twenty-novel cycle, Les Rougon-Macquart, where he linked heredity to behavior.	Thus, Zola described the high-born Rougons as those involved in politics (Son Excellence Eugène Rougon) and medicine (Le Docteur Pascal) and the low-born Macquarts as those fatally falling into alcoholism (L'Assommoir), prostitution (Nana), and homicide (La Bête humaine). 
noLabel	Special Powers Act, 1932, which punished a person if he incited a single person not to pay or defer the payment of Government dues, as there was no reasonable nexus between the speech and public order.	Similarly, the court upheld the validity of the provision empowering a Magistrate to issue directions to protect the public order or tranquillity . 
noLabel	As the mobile phone became a new mass media in 1998 when the first paid downloadable content appeared on mobile phones in Finland, it was only a matter of time until mobile advertising followed, also first launched in Finland in 2000.	By 2007 the value of mobile advertising had reached $2.2 billion and providers such as Admob delivered billions of mobile ads. 
noLabel	According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change deforestation, mainly in tropical areas, could account for up to one-third of total anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions .	But recent calculations suggest that carbon dioxide emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (excluding peatland emissions) contribute about 12% of total anthropogenic carbon dioxide emissions with a range from 6 to 17% .
noLabel	Intense thermal radiation at the hypocenter forms a fireball and if the burst is low enough, its often associated mushroom cloud.	In a burst at high altitudes, where the air density is low, more energy is released as ionizing gamma radiation and x-rays than an atmosphere-displacing shockwave. 
noLabel	Governments will tend to produce laws and policies that are close to the views of the median voter– with half to his left and the other half to his right.	This is not actually a desirable outcome as it represents the action of self-interested and somewhat unaccountable political elites competing for votes.
noLabel	Though appealing in theory, many reforms based on school choice have not led to substantial improvements in teaching and learning .	For instance, New Zealand's landmark reform in 1989, during which schools were granted substantial autonomy, funding was devolved to schools, and parents were given a free choice of which school their children would attend, led to only modest improvements in most schools and was associated with increases in inequity and greater racial and social stratification in schools.
noLabel	In a 1995 interview in Reason magazine he said the "difference between me and people like Murray Rothbard is that, though I want to know what my ideal is, I think I also have to be willing to discuss changes that are less than ideal so long as they point me in that direction."	He said he actually would "like to abolish the Fed," and points out that when he has written about the Fed it is simply his recommendations of how it should be run given that it exists .
noLabel	"The anguish in the Muslim world at the publication of these offensive caricatures is shared by all individuals and communities who recognize the sensitivity of deeply held religious belief.	In all societies there is a need to show sensitivity and responsibility in treating issues of special significance for the adherents of any particular faith, even by those who do not share the belief in question. 
noLabel	These roots also aid in water uptake and storage, increase surface area for gas exchange, and collect leaf litter for added nutrition .	Additionally, these roots reduce soil erosion and maximize nutrient acquisition during heavy rains by diverting nutrient rich water flowing down the trunk into several smaller flows while also acting as a barrier to ground flow.
noLabel	The decision of whether to support a melting-pot or multicultural approach has developed into an issue of much debate within some countries.	For example, the French and British governments and populace are currently debating whether Islamic cultural practices and dress conflict with their attempts to form culturally unified countries.
noLabel	In cases where whistleblowing on a specified topic is protected by statute, US courts have generally held that such whistleblowers are protected from retaliation .	However, a closely divided US Supreme Court decision, Garcetti v. Ceballos (2006) held that the First Amendment free speech guarantees for government employees do not protect disclosures made within the scope of the employees' duties.
noLabel	A number of companies left South Africa as a result, and the amendment proved to be one of the more effective anti-apartheid sanctions .	It subsequently won praise from Nelson Mandela, and Rangel later said was one of his actions that he was most proud of .
noLabel	The figure rarely takes into account the unofficial economy, which includes subsistence agriculture and cash-in-hand or unpaid work, which is often substantial in LEDCs.	In LEDCs it is often too expensive to accurately collect this data and some governments intentionally or unintentionally release inaccurate figures. 
noLabel	The reason for this dissociation is to make the early steps (offering, promising, requesting an advantage) of a corrupt deal already an offence and, thus, to give a clear signal (from a criminal policy point of view) that bribery is not acceptable.	Furthermore, such a dissociation makes the prosecution of bribery offences easier since it can be very difficult to prove that two parties (the bribe-giver and the bribe-taker) have formally agreed upon a corrupt deal.
noLabel	Elective and hereditaryAccording to the Constitution, the President of the United Arab Emirates is elected by the Federal Supreme Council from among the individual rulers of the seven emirates .	However, by informal agreement the Presidency is always passed to the head of the Al Nahyan clan, the Emir of Abu Dhabi (see constituent monarchs), which makes it a de facto hereditary position.
noLabel	It also contains an implicit guarantee that the Fourteenth Amendment explicitly prohibits states from violating an individual's rights of due process and equal protection.	In the employment context, these Constitutional provisions would limit the right of the state and federal governments to discriminate in their employment practices by treating employees, former employees, or job applicants unequally because of membership in a group (such as a race or sex).
noLabel	The average fee is around €5,000 annually for most schools, but some of these schools also provide boarding and the fees may then rise up to €25,000 per year.	The fee-paying schools are usually run by a religious order, i.e., the Society of Jesus or Congregation of Christian Brothers, etc. 
noLabel	Heads of the G20 meeting in London on 2 April 2009 pledged "We will not repeat the historic mistakes of protectionism of previous eras".	Adherence to this pledge is monitored by the Global Trade Alert,providing up-to-date information and informed commentary to help ensure that the G20 pledge is met by maintaining confidence in the world trading system, detering beggar-thy-neighbour acts, and preserving the contribution that exports could play in the future recovery of the world economy. 
noLabel	Plaintiffs alleged, among other claims, that defendants violated domestic and international laws and movement members' First Amendment rights of free exercise.	While the courts ruled in this case, American Baptist Churches vs. Thurnburgh, that international law did not apply and the government did not violate Sanctuary members' First Amendment rights, the movement won the public's sympathies and the government eventually granted asylum status to many of the refugees involved in the trial. 
noLabel	The energy consumed to manufacture and transport the materials used to build a wind power plant is equal to the new energy produced by the plant within a few months.	While a wind farm may cover a large area of land, many land uses such as agriculture are compatible, with only small areas of turbine foundations and infrastructure made unavailable for use .
noLabel	The issue of establishing minority groups, and determining the extent of privileges they might derive from their status, is the subject of some debate.	One view is that the application of special rights to minority groups may be inappropriate in some countries, for example newly established states in Africa or Latin America (not founded on the European nation-state model), where recognition and rights accorded to specific groups may interfere with the state's need to establish a cohesive identity, and hamper the ability of the minority to integrate itself into mainstream society - perhaps to the point at which the minority follows a path to separatism or supremacism.
noLabel	The following season, Kansas State finished 6th in the BCS standings but again received no invitation, this time being passed over in favor of Michigan (ranked 8th).	Kansas State's predicament (as well as that of undefeated Tulane who was denied a BCS bid because they played in Conference USA) inaugurated the long-standing media controversies regarding the system.
noLabel	(The decision in Lemon v. Kurtzman hinged upon the conclusion that the government benefits were flowing disproportionately to Catholic schools, and that Catholic schools were an integral component of the Catholic Church's religious mission, thus the policy involved the state in an "excessive entanglement" with religion.)	Failure to meet any of these criteria is a proof that the statute or policy in question violates the Establishment Clause. 
noLabel	In a classic case of jury nullification the jury refused to convict William Penn of preaching a Quaker sermon, which was illegal.	Even though the jury was imprisoned for their acquittal, they stood by their decision and helped establish the freedom of religion. 
noLabel	Human rights in the People's Republic of China are a matter of dispute between the Chinese government, other countries, international NGOs, and dissidents inside the country.	Organizations such as the U.S. State Department, Amnesty International, and Human Rights Watch have accused the Chinese government of restricting the freedoms of speech, movement, and religion of Chinese citizens.
noLabel	The many scientific and literary journals (predominantly composed of book reviews) that were published during this time are also evidence of the intellectual side of the Enlightenment.	In fact, Jonathan Israel argues that the learned journals, from the 1680s onwards, influenced European intellectual culture to a greater degree than any other "cultural innovation" . 
noLabel	On February 12, 2010, the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which regularly issues economic reports, published job-loss data on a month-by-month basis since 2000 .	Organizing for America, a community organizing project of the Democratic National Committee, prepared a chart presenting the BLS data for the period beginning in December 2007.
noLabel	During the same period Ali ibn Abbas al-Majusi documents the use of suppositories made of rock salt for women for whom pregnancy may be dangerous.	In the early 10th century the Persian Polymath Abu Ali al-Hussain ibn Abdallah ibn Sina, known in Europe as Avicenna, included a chapter on birth control in his medical encyclopedia The Canon of Medicine, documenting 20 different methods of preventing conception .
noLabel	However, there may be numerous potential asylees in a destination state who are unwilling to apply or have been denied asylum status, and hence are categorized as "unathorized immigrants" and may be subject to punishment or deportation.	However, Article 31 of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees prohibits the Contracting States from imposing penalties on refugees for their illegal enter or presence, who come directly from a territory where their life or freedom are threatened. 
noLabel	In Britain, the perceived left-leaning nature of trade unions has resulted in the formation of a reactionary right-wing trade union called Solidarity which is supported by the far-right BNP.	In Denmark, there are some newer apolitical "discount" unions who offer a very basic level of services, as opposed to the dominating Danish pattern of extensive services and organising . 
noLabel	Freelance writer Abby O'Reilly writes that since having children is frequently viewed as a measure of success, VHEMT's goal is difficult to attain .	Knight contends in response to these arguments that though sexual desire is natural, human desire for children is a product of enculturation . 
noLabel	In January 2007, The American Academy of Family Physicians (AAFP) stated "The effect of circumcision on penile sensation or sexual satisfaction is unknown.	Because the epithelium of a circumcised glans becomes cornified, and because some feel nerve over-stimulation leads to desensitization, many believe that the glans of a circumcised penis is less sensitive.
noLabel	Almost all public space has some advertisements in sight and all forms of media, from newspapers to the cinema, are also filled with adverts.	Whilst this helps companies sell their products, and helps consumers to learn what is on offer, many believe that this huge amount of advertising can be harmful.
noLabel	Rather, it was a banquet hall for the Russian nobility which frequented this spa resort in the late 19th century, and is presently used as a restaurant.	The Catalina Casino, a famous landmark overlooking Avalon Harbor on Santa Catalina Island, California, has never been used for traditional games of chance, which were already outlawed in California by the time it was built. 
noLabel	The Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, a gun control advocacy group, favored the banning of all handguns as recently as 2000.	Other advocacy groups have called for banning small, inexpensive handguns known as "Saturday night special", but conservatives believe bans on less lethal varieties of guns encourage the substitution of more lethal types of guns.
noLabel	Cannabis smoking was introduced to Sub-Saharan Africa through Ethiopia and the east African coast by either Indian or Arab traders in the 13th century or earlier and spread on the same trade routes as those that carried coffee, which originated in the highlands of Ethiopia .	It was smoked in calabash water pipes with terra cotta smoking bowls, apparently an Ethiopian invention which was later conveyed to eastern, southern and central Africa.
noLabel	Two weeks after the cancellation, representatives from Andry Rajoelina's government began pressuring Delmas to pick up the shipment, which included more than 200 containers worth $40 million .	Threats from Patrick Leloup, an adviser to Rajoelina, were reportedly issued to Delmas, stating that their refusal to transport the wood would result in a ban from doing business in Madagascar .
noLabel	Excepting 18 countries termed 'demographic outliers' by the UN) this process is taking place in every country and region across the globe.	In the entirety of recorded human history, the world has never seen as aged a population as currently exists globally .
noLabel	She envisioned young adults prepared by their experiences in Montessori education at the lower levels ready to fully embrace the study of culture and the sciences in order to influence and lead civilization.	She believed that economic independence in the form of work for money was critical for this age, and felt that an arbitrary limit to the number of years in university level study was unnecessary, as the study of culture could go on throughout a person's life .
noLabel	Political arguments of gun politics in the United States center around disagreements that range from the practicaldoes gun ownership cause or prevent crime?to the constitutionalhow should the Second Amendment be interpreted?to the ethicalwhat should the balance be between an individual's right of self-defense through gun ownership and the People's interest in maintaining public safety?	Political arguments about gun rights fall into two basic categories, first, does the government have the authority to regulate guns, and second, if it does, is it effective public policy to regulate guns . 
noLabel	The GAO estimated in 2008 that double-digit GDP growth would be required for the next 75 years to outgrow the projected increases in deficits and debt; GDP growth averaged 3.2% during the 1990s.	Because mandatory spending growth rates will far exceed any reasonable growth rate in GDP and the tax base, the GAO concluded that the U.S. cannot grow its way out of the problem . 
noLabel	In September 2007 in Ohio, 16-year-old Daniel Petric snuck out of his bedroom window to purchase the game Halo 3 against the orders of his father, a minister at New Life Assembly of God in Wellington, Ohio, U.S .	His parents eventually banned him from the game after he spent up to 18 hours a day with it, and secured it in a lockbox in a closet where the father also kept a 9mm handgun, according to prosecutors .
noLabel	Save the Children found that, annually, 13 million children are born to women under age 20 worldwide, more than 90% in developing countries.	Complications of pregnancy and childbirth are the leading cause of mortality among women between the ages of 15 and 19 in such areas .
noLabel	According to New York Supreme Court Judge J. Nicholas Colabella, "Short of a gun to the head, a greater threat to First Amendment expression can scarcely be imagined."	A number of jurisdictions have made such suits illegal, provided that the appropriate standards of journalistic responsibility have been met by the critic.
noLabel	Dick Pound, the head of the World Anti-Doping Agency, said the UCI report was "so lacking in professionalism and objectivity that it borders on farcical".Why was the UCI so useless?	As one cycling journalist observed last week, the governing body "consistently, either through naivety, incompetence or complicity, concealed the worst excesses of a decade of doping".
noLabel	Earlier that day, the operators of those collectives participated in a press conference with LA City Council members announcing the City's intention to regulate the collectives and asking the DEA to halt raids on collectives while the City drafted regulations.	The dispensary operator of Natural Hybrid (NHI Caregivers) was forced to close down the collective due to the tremendous loss caused by the DEA conducted joint task force raid against them.
noLabel	Social integration, in sociology and other social sciences, is the movement of minority groups such as ethnic minorities, refugees and underprivileged sections of a society into the mainstream of societies.	Social integration requires proficiency in an accepted common language of the society, acceptance of the laws of the society and adoption of a common set of values of the society.
noLabel	On December 20, 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled in the case of  that the continued display of the Ten Commandments as part of a larger display on American legal traditions in a Kentucky courthouse was allowed, because the purpose of the display (educating the public on American legal traditions) was secular in nature .	In ruling on the Mount Soledad cross controversy on May 3, 2006, however, a federal judge ruled that the cross on public property on Mount Soledad must be removed .
noLabel	Another key change was a reappraisal of how and when people should be notified of their permission to enter the UK.	This work was conducted under the banner “flexibility” and reconsidered how it was best to give people permission to enter, whether it was still necessary in all cases and whether permission could be granted as part of the visa process abroad.
noLabel	$11 billion: Government contractors: Repeal a law that takes effect in 2012, requiring government agencies to withhold three percent of payments to contractors to help ensure they pay their tax bills.	Repealing the law would cost $11 billion over 10 years, in part because the government could not earn interest by holding the money throughout the year. 
noLabel	The late 1970s witnessed the end of universally recognized champions, as the WBC and WBA began to recognize different champions and top contenders, ushering in the era of multiple champions, unworthy mandatory challengers, and general corruption that came to be associated with sanctioning bodies in later decades.	The end of this decade also saw the sport begin to become more oriented toward the casino industry, and public broadcasts would be replaced by closed-circuit, and ultimately pay-per-view, broadcasts, as the boxing audience shrank in numbers.
noLabel	"How do you assess an investment opportunity if no reliable information about social tension, corruption or local trade unions is available?	This case of censorship, affecting a very specialised site with solely French-language content, shows the [Chinese] government attaches as much importance to the censorship of economic data as political content," the organization was quoted as saying .
noLabel	The tobacco control field comprises the activity of disparate health, policy and legal research and reform advocacy bodies across the world.	These took time to coalesce into a sufficiently organised coalition to advance such measures as the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, and the first article of the first edition of the Tobacco Control journal suggested that developing as a diffusely organised movement was indeed necessary in order to bring about effective action to address the health effects of tobacco use .
noLabel	Argentina's Foreign Affairs Ministry (Cancillería) issued a statement condemning the attack by Israeli forces, called for a full investigation and deeply regretted the loss of human lives.	It also asked for an immediate stop to acts of violence in the area, and the lifting of the blockade .
noLabel	In April 2004, McCain was asked by Peter G. Peterson what the United States should do if the "Iraqi government asks us to leave, even if we are unhappy about the security situation there?"	McCain responded, "I think it's obvious that we would have to leave because— if it was an elected government of Iraq.." . 
noLabel	India is an 80% Hindu country, yet its prime minister is a Sikh (Manmohan Singh), the chairperson of the ruling alliance is a Catholic woman of Italian birth (Sonia Gandhi), and three out of the twelve presidents of India have been Muslims.	Further, the current Chief Election Commissioner of India is a Muslim, as are many successful Indians including film stars, artists, religious scholars, industrialists etc. 
noLabel	In the short-run, tax revenues have declined significantly due to a severe recession and tax policy choices, while expenditures have expanded for wars, unemployment insurance and other safety net spending .	In the long-run, expenditures related to healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid are projected to grow faster than the economy overall as the population matures .
noLabel	The Dangermonds said in a statement that they didn't know Lewis lived in the neighborhood when they decided to buy the land and donate it.	A spokeswoman for Lewis' attorneys said the congressman was unaware the Dangermonds owned the land and did not know the terms under which it was given to the city .
noLabel	Waltz's key contribution to the realm of political science is in the creation of neorealism (or structural realism, as he calls it), a theory of International Relations which posits that states' actions can often be explained by the pressures exerted on them by international competition, which limits and constrains their choices.	Neorealism thus aims to explain recurring patterns of state behavior, such as why the relations between Sparta and Athens resembled in important ways the relations between the US and the USSR. 
noLabel	The "rematch" bowl increased calls for a requirement that for any team to qualify for the national championship game, they must also have won their conference championship, either shared or outright.	This idea was part of the discussions held after the end of the 2011 season as the BCS discussed changes for the next BCS cycle and contract period.
noLabel	The Convention's députés were instructed to put an end to the crisis that had broken out since the prevented flight to Varennes of Louis XVI (June 1791) and the bloody capture of the Tuileries (10 August 1792).	Their middle class origin and their political activity meant that most of them bore no sympathy for the monarchy and the victory at the battle of Valmy on 20 September (the revolution's first military success) occurred on the same day as their meeting, thus confirming their convictions.
noLabel	The structure of the open source community requires that individuals have programming expertise in order to engage in open code modification and exchange.	Individuals interested in supporting the open source movement may lack this skill set, but there are many other ways of contributing .
noLabel	"Concussion" can be considered to imply a state in which brain function is temporarily impaired and "MTBI" to imply a pathophysiological state, but in practice few researchers and clinicians distinguish between the terms .	Descriptions of the condition, including the severity and the area of the brain affected, are now used more often than "concussion" in clinical neurology . 
noLabel	Due to its physical size and fusion fuel type (cryogenic liquid deuterium), the Mike device was not suitable for use as a thermonuclear weapon; it was intended as an extremely conservative experiment to validate the concepts used for multi-megaton detonations.	A simplified and lightened bomb version (the EC-16) was prepared, and scheduled to be tested in operation Castle Yankee, as a backup in case the non-cryogenic "Shrimp" fusion device (tested in Castle Bravo) failed to work; that test was cancelled when the Bravo device was tested successfully, making the cryogenic designs obsolete.
noLabel	These were identical to standard issue military rifles at the time; although some were stamped with NRA and a flaming bomb symbol on the forward tang of the trigger guard so they would not appear to be stolen government property.	Production for military service interrupted sales to NRA members during World War I, but production for civilian NRA members resumed between the world wars . 
noLabel	In turn, the band would have a major influence on much of the video game music produced during the 8-bit and 16-bit eras .	During the golden age of arcade video games in the early 1980s, it became common for arcade game sounds and bleeps to be utilized, particularly in early hip hop music, synthpop, and electro music .
noLabel	In operation for less than six weeks, as of October 13, 2005 the project has already managed to garner $84,000,000 in specific budget cut commitments out of various Representatives and non-specific agreements out of many more.	In addition, those Representatives who have been contacted and have negative responses are highlighted and their contact information is made available for their constituents.
noLabel	Historically, protectionism was associated with economic theories such as mercantilism (that believed that it is beneficial to maintain a positive trade balance), and import substitution.	During that time, Adam Smith famously warned against the "interested sophistry" of industry, seeking to gain advantage at the cost of the consumers . 
noLabel	The religious journalist Madeleine Bunting produced a scathing review for The Guardian, in which she described the documentary as "a piece of intellectually lazy polemic not worthy of a great scientist" .	In The Tablet, Keith Ward criticised Dawkins for what he considered to be an indiscriminate and simplistic approach to religion . 
noLabel	In February 2011, Attorney General Eric Holder announced that the Obama administration's Justice Department had determined that a key provision of the Defense of Marriage Act was unconstitutional and, as a result, the administration would no longer argue in support of the act's constitutionality in court .	Paul issued a statement to Iowa Republicans criticizing the Obama administration's position, saying: "Like the majority of Iowans, I believe that marriage is between one man and one woman and must be protected.
noLabel	Refusal Shoes is an extremely unflattering but funny caricature of life on the immigration controls in a not very carefully disguised Heathrow Terminal Three in 1998.	The book deals with what the disenchanted main character sees in his colleagues - overwhelming cynicism, casual racism and abuse of power.
noLabel	Although synthetic biology has not yet come out of its "lab" stage, it has great potential to become industrialized in the near future.	In order to industrialize open source science, there are some scientists who are trying to build their own brand of it . 
noLabel	The Catholic Church condemned the observance of circumcision as a mortal sin and ordered against its practice in the Council of Basel-Florence in 1442 .	According to UNAIDS, it stated that circumcision was unnecessary for Christians; El-Hout and Khauli, however, regard it as condemnation of the procedure .
noLabel	Between March and mid-July, authorities in Masoala National Park found a total of 23 stumps, 2,906 logs, 142 logging camps, and over 130 workers within the park .	(Few stumps were found because these rare trees are found at low densities—up to 5 trees per hectare, whereas workers, camps, and logs can be found concentrated along paths cut into the forest.)
noLabel	Before his first appearance at the balcony of Saint Peter's Basilica after becoming pope, he was announced by Jorge Medina Estévez, Cardinal Protodeacon of the Holy Roman Church.	Cardinal Medina Estévez first addressed the massive crowd as "dear(est) brothers and sisters" in Italian, Spanish, French, German and English, with each language receiving cheers from the international crowd, before continuing with the traditional Habemus Papam announcement in Latin. 
noLabel	Eric Barendt has called this defence of free speech on the grounds of democracy "probably the most attractive and certainly the most fashionable free speech theory in modern Western democracies" .	Thomas I. Emerson expanded on this defence when he argued that freedom of speech helps to provide a balance between stability and change.
noLabel	On May 27, 2006 the Justice Department moved to preempt the Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR)  to warrantless domestic surveillance by invoking the state secrets privilege.	The Bush Administration is arguing that CCR's case could reveal secrets regarding U.S. national security, and thus the presiding judge must dismiss it without reviewing the evidence.
noLabel	If the attacking nation did not prevent the attacked nation from a nuclear response, the attacked nation would respond with a second strike against the attacking nation.	In this situation, whether the U.S. first attacked the USSR or the USSR first attacked the U.S., the end result would be that both nations would be damaged to the point of utter social collapse. 
noLabel	People may be given access to Restricted information on the strength of an authorisation by their Head of Department, without being subjected to the background vetting associated with Confidential, Secret and Top Secret clearances.	New Zealand's security classifications and the national-harm requirements associated with their use are roughly similar to those of the United States. 
noLabel	For example, Colorado State University requires their director of its Office of Equal Opportunity to maintain extensive statistics on its employees by job category as well as minorities and gender .	In Britain, Aberystwyth University collects information including the "representation of women, men, members of racial or ethnic minorities and people with disabilities amongst applicants for posts, candidates interviewed, new appointments, current staff, promotions and holders of discretionary awards" to comply with equal opportunity laws . 
noLabel	Wada's ┬ú17.8m budget was frozen this year, with national governments (who fund it 50-50 with the IOC) unwilling to increase their contributions in a time of austerity.	There are fears that the new threat of match-fixing and corrupt gambling will further divert resources.Ljungqvist was circumspect yesterday when asked whether an extraordinary performance like that of the Chinese swimmer Ye Shiwen in the 400m individual medley should automatically attract suspicion and trigger targeted testing.
noLabel	Obama visited the Gulf on May 2 among visits by members of his cabinet, and again on May 28 and June 4.	On May 22 he announced a federal investigation and formed a bipartisan commission to recommend new safety standards, after a review by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and concurrent Congressional hearings.
noLabel	This means that reserve capacity on a system equal in MW to 20% of added wind could be retired when such wind is added without affecting system security or robustness.	But the precise value is irrelevant since the main value of wind (in the UK, worth 5 times the capacity credit value) is its fuel and CO2 savings. 
noLabel	Homeschooling can be an option for families living in isolated rural locations, living temporarily abroad, and to allow for more traveling; also many young athletes and actors are taught at home.	Homeschooling can be about mentorship and apprenticeship, where a tutor or teacher is with the child for many years and then knows the child very well. 
noLabel	Like most neorealists Waltz accepts that globalization is posing new challenges to states, but he does not believe states are being replaced, because no other non-state actor can equal the capabilities of the state.	Waltz has suggested that globalization is a fad of the 1990s and if anything the role of the state has expanded its functions in response to global transformations. 
noLabel	In the Middle Ages in Europe, there was generally a lack of any concept of literary property due to the general relations of production, the specific organization of literary production and the role of culture in society.	The latter refers to the tendency of oral societies, such as that of Europe in the medieval period, to view knowledge as the product, expression and property of the collective.
noLabel	Following the introduction of these measures the yield on Greek 10-year bonds fell to 8.5%, 550 basis points above German yields, down from 800 basis points earlier .	As of 22 September 2011, Greek 10-year bonds were trading at an effective yield of 23.6%, more than double the amount of the year before .
noLabel	This was first clearly demonstrated in 1997 by the phenomenal success of Final Fantasy VII, which is considered one of the most influential games of all time, .	With a record-breaking production budget of around $45 million, the ambitious scope of Final Fantasy VII raised the possibilities for the genre, with its more expansive world to explore, much longer quest, more numerous sidequests, dozens of minigames, and much higher production values.
noLabel	The Middle East Quartet, consisting of the European Union, Russia, the United Nations and the United States, said it "urges restraint and calls on all Governments concerned to use their influence to discourage additional flotillas, which risk the safety of their participants and carry the potential for escalation.	It urged those wishing to deliver goods to Gaza to do so through "established channels," which include Israeli and Egyptian crossings .
noLabel	Thousands of Cuban and Spanish tabaqueros came to the area from Key West, Cuba and New York to produce hundreds of millions of cigars annually.	Local output peaked in 1929, when workers in Ybor City and West Tampa rolled over 500,000,000 "clear Havana" cigars, earning the town the nickname "Cigar Capital of the World" . 
noLabel	In Uzbekistan users are frequently sent block pages stating that the website is blocked because of pornography, even when the page contains no pornography.	Uzbeki ISPs may also redirect users' request for blocked websites to unrelated websites, or sites similar to the banned websites, but with different information .
noLabel	Thich Nhat Hanh discusses what he calls "Interbeing" as a way of living one's life in relation to others; "Interbeing" might easily be compared to cosmopolitanism.	Nhat Hanh's philosophical beliefs are grounded in the precepts of Buddhist teachings, which involve compassion and understanding to protect and live in harmony with all people, animals, plants, and minerals (88).
noLabel	 Unlike the United States before Emancipation, African Americans (and European Americans) were allowed to become citizens of their respective Native American nations; however, it was rare for African Americans to become citizens of Native American nations.	For example, a small number of "Free People of Color" lived in many Native American nations as Cherokee, Choctaw, or Creek citizens .
noLabel	He said that US dependence on foreign oil is "a major strategic vulnerability, a serious threat to our security, our economy and the well being of our planet."	He is co-sponsor of a Senate cap-and-trade bill designed to limit greenhouse gas emissions, and is seen as a bipartisan leader on the issue. 
noLabel	McCain's compromise permitted the President to establish permissible interrogation techniques and to "interpret the meaning and application" of international Geneva Convention standards, so long as the coercion fell short of "serious" bodily or psychological injury .	Widely dubbed McCain's "torture compromise", the bill was signed into law by George W. Bush on October 17, 2006, shortly before the 2006 midterm elections. 
noLabel	Although most scholars caution that this decline cannot be attributed to a causal effect, they conclude that this observation argues against causal harmful effects for media violence.	A recent long-term outcome study of youth found no long-term relationship between playing violent video games or watching violent television and youth violence or bullying  .
noLabel	The Articles of Confederation in 1781 created a unicameral body with equal representation among the states in which each state had a veto over most decisions.	With no executive or judiciary, and minimal authority, this government was weak and lacked authority to collect taxes, regulate commerce, or enforce laws . 
noLabel	However, the reverse is also true, that poverty causes overpopulation as it gives women little power to control giving birth, or to have educational attainment or a career .	Empowering women with better education and more control of their lives makes them more successful in bringing down rapid population growth because they have more say in family planning .
noLabel	Another grid energy storage method is to use off-peak or renewably generated electricity to compress air, which is usually stored in an old mine or some other kind of geological feature.	When electricity demand is high, the compressed air is heated with a small amount of natural gas and then goes through turboexpanders to generate electricity .
noLabel	3) That each man shall be provided with a handkerchief of a colour suitable to his own fancy, and that the seconds proceed to entwine these handkerchiefs at the upper end of one of the center stakes.	That these handkerchiefs shall be called “the colours;” and that the winner of the battle at its conclusion shall be entitled to their possession, as the trophy of victory. 
noLabel	Again, it is helpful for understanding to emphasize that large single warheads are seldom a part of today's arsenals, since smaller MIRV warheads are far more destructive for a given total yield or payload capacity.	This effect, which results from the fact that destructive power of a single warhead scales approximately as the 2/3 power of its yield, more than makes up for the lessened yield/weight efficiency encountered if ballistic missile warheads are scaled-down from the maximal size that could be carried by a single-warhead missile.
noLabel	As indicated on the pages devoted to political corruption, efforts have been made in recent years by the international community to encourage countries to dissociate and incriminate as separate offences, active and passive bribery.	From a legal point of view, active bribery can be defined for instance as the promising, offering or giving by any person, directly or indirectly, of any undue advantage [to any public official], for himself or herself or for anyone else, for him or her to act or refrain from acting in the exercise of his or her functions.
noLabel	For example, in 2002 in South Korea, two girls were accidentally killed by a U.S. military AVLB bridge laying vehicle on the way to the base camp after a training exercise, and the soldiers involved were tried under U.S. criminal jurisdiction.	The U.S. military court martial panel found the act to be an accident and acquitted the service members of negligent homicide, citing no criminal intent or negligence.
noLabel	On June 28, 1941, the Office of Scientific Research and Development was formed in the U.S. to mobilize scientific resources and apply the results of research to national defense.	In September, Fermi assembled his first nuclear "pile" or reactor, in an attempt to create a slow neutron-induced chain reaction in uranium, but the experiment failed to achieve criticality, due to lack of proper materials, or not enough of the proper materials which were available. 
noLabel	A time-honored approach to the detection of doping is the random and often-repeated search of athletes’ homes and team facilities for evidence of a banned substance or practice.	Professional cyclists customarily submit to random drug testing and searches of their homes as an obligation of team membership and participation in the UCI ProTour.
noLabel	Some Dalai Lamas (reincarnations of the Bodhisattva of Compassion) were both political and spiritual leader ("god-king") of Tibet in Imperial China.	Independent from 1914 to 1950, it was occupied by the People's Republic of China, where the powers were gradually reduced until the 14th's flight into exile in 1959. 
noLabel	Tsinghua University professor Patrick Chovanec has speculated that the Chinese ban on Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube may have been done in part to grant a business advantage to the websites' Chinese competitors .	Similarly, China has been accused of using a double standard in attacking Google for "obscene" content that is also present on Chinese competitor Baidu . 
noLabel	The passengers formed a human ring on the bridge to block the soldiers, and Israeli troops responded by using physical force, electric shocks, plastic and rubber bullets, paintballs, and tear gas.	 A reporter for the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote that Israeli soldiers approached passengers with guns drawn and tasered a 65 year-old person from a distance of ten centimeters .
noLabel	Since his first days as a freshman Congressman, Toomey has strongly advocated deregulation of the financial services industry: "The trend in deregulation, beginning in the early 1980s, is one of the biggest reasons for the sustained economic expansion.	I would like to see us continue to deregulate on many fronts, including the financial services industry,” he stated in the spring of 1999 . 
noLabel	Major pubs chains in the UK (Punch, Marstons, Greene King etc) are removing cigarette machines across the UK and replacing them with TaBBOXX lottery machines.	In Jan 2012, in the run up to the London Olympics, TaBBOXX joined with Dame Kelly Holmes Legacy Trust to launch a lottery raising money to help disadvantaged young people through sport.
noLabel	A few WADs have been released commercially, including the Master Levels for Doom II, which was released in 1995 along with Maximum Doom, a CD containing 1,830 WADs that had been downloaded from the Internet.	Several thousand WADs have been created in total: the idgames FTP archive contains over 13,000 files, and this represents only a fraction of the complete output of Doom fans. 
noLabel	Attorney William Oldaker - also an earmark specialist who has served as treasurer for several political action committees - said that the couple sought his legal advice in 2005 about their working arrangement and he assured them they were complying with House ethics rules "in letter and spirit.	" In May 2005, Congressman Lewis sent a letter to the House Ethics Committee, which Oldaker said he drafted, stating that "When I hired Mr. Shockey, I directed him, the Committee’s other majority staff members, and my personal staff as follows: that Mr. Shockey will not take any action or otherwise involve himself in any matter in which his spouse is representing a client."
noLabel	If it should be declared that contraception is not evil in itself, then we should have to concede frankly that the Holy Spirit had been on the side of the Protestant churches in 1930 (when the encyclical Casti Connubii was promulgated), in 1951 (Pius XII's address to the midwives), and in 1958 (the address delivered before the Society of Hematologists in the year the pope died).	It should likewise have to be admitted that for a half century the Spirit failed to protect Pius XI, Pius XII, and a large part of the Catholic hierarchy from a very serious error.
noLabel	An article published by the BBC said that the fact that the Goldstone report might have consequences for countries fighting terrorists that hide among civilians "may have been a consideration for the U.S. and some NATO countries that either voted against the UN resolution or abstained [at the General Assembly vote]."	The article concludes by stating that human rights groups note that the report has reinforced efforts to tackle issues of impunity and lack of accountability for war crimes . 
noLabel	The Chief of Staff of the United States Army, General of the Army George C. Marshall began contemplating the use of a weapon which was "readily available and which assuredly can decrease the cost in American lives": poison gas.	Quantities of phosgene, mustard gas, tear gas and cyanogen chloride were moved to Luzon from stockpiles in Australia and New Guinea in preparation for Operation Olympic, and General of the Army Douglas MacArthur ensured that Chemical Warfare Service units were trained in their use.
noLabel	In some real-life situations, such as the Yom Kippur War, leaders felt that internal or external political considerations forced a conflict.	One of the essays in, regarding the internal military and political discussions within the Egyptian high command in 1973, indicates that senior civilian leaders (including Anwar Sadat) believed that they had to fight a war in order to have enough internal political support to negotiate for peace. 
noLabel	During the 1980s, the government relaxed labor, consumer and environmental rules based on the idea that such regulation interfered with free enterprise, increased the costs of doing business, and thus contributed to inflation.	The response to such changes is mixed; many Americans continued to voice concerns about specific events or trends, prompting the government to issue new regulations in some areas, including environmental protection . 
noLabel	Dead storage allows sediments to settle which improves water quality and also creates hydraulic head along with an area for fish during low levels.	Active or live storage is the portion of the reservoir that can be utilized for flood control, power production, navigation and downstream releases.
noLabel	Stanley said he would not oppose the Gray Commission's proposal to assign students on the basis of factors other than race (which might lead to some integration) .	Stanley's concession, the Washington Post reported, was made because it was widely assumed that the Gray Commission was assumed to be strongly in favor of the pupil assignment plan and the tuition grant proposal . 
noLabel	The earliest apartment buildings were in the major cities of Sydney and Melbourne as the response to fast rising land values.	Melbourne Mansions on Collins Street, Melbourne (now demolished), built in 1906 for mostly wealthy residents is believed by many to be the earliest.
noLabel	A survey conducted by BII (formerly British Institute of Innkeeping) and the Federation of Licensed Victuallers' Associations (FLVA) concluded that sales had decreased by 7.3% in the 5 months since the introduction of smoke-free workplaces on 1 July 2007.	Of the 2,708 responses to the survey, 58% of licensees said they had seen smokers visiting less regularly, while 73% had seen their smoking customers spending less time at the pub . 
noLabel	Wind energy's greatest potential in Brazil is during the dry season, so it is considered a hedge against low rainfall and the geographical spread of existing hydro resources.	Brazil's technical potential for wind energy is 143 gigawatts due to the country's blustery 4,600-mile coastline, where most projects are based.
noLabel	Historically, southern slave holding states, because of their low cost manual labor, had little perceived need for mechanization, gained capital from selling their commodities abroad, and supported a policy which would allow them access to cheaper foreign goods.	Northern states, on the other hand, sought to develop a manufacturing capacity, and successfully slowly raised tariffs higher and higher to allow nascent Northern manufacturers to compete with British competitors and eventually capture the domestic market. 
noLabel	The majority opinion allowed states to protect "fetal life after viability" even though a fetus is not "a person within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment".	Supporters of Roe contend that the decision has a valid constitutional foundation, or contend that justification for the result in Roe could be found in the Constitution but not in the articles referenced in the decision .
noLabel	In order to ensure that social programs such as health care and education are funded consistently throughout Canada, the "have-not" (poorer) provinces receive a proportionately greater share of federal "transfer (equalization) payments" than the richer, or "have", provinces do; this has been somewhat controversial.	The richer provinces often favour freezing transfer payments, or rebalancing the system in their favour, based on the claim that they already pay more in taxes than they receive in federal government services, and the poorer provinces often favour an increase on the basis that the amount of money they receive is not sufficient for their existing needs. 
noLabel	Doom has appeared in several forms in addition to games, including a comic book, four novels by Dafydd Ab Hugh and Brad Linaweaver (loosely based on events and locations in the games), a board game and even a live-action film starring Karl Urban and The Rock released in 2005.	The game's development and impact on popular culture is also the subject of the book Masters of Doom by David Kushner.
noLabel	In the 2010 season, Delaware, a traditional FCS power that is consistently among the division's attendance leaders, averaged 20,684 for its regular-season home games.	The Blue Hens won a share of the Colonial Athletic Association title and advanced to the playoffs, ultimately reaching the national championship game.
noLabel	The political aspect of security has been offered by Barry Buzan, Ole Wæver, Jaap de Wilde as an important component of national security, Political security is about the stability of the social order.	Closely allied to military security and societal security, other components proposed in a framework for national security in their book "Security: a new framework for analysis", it specifically addresses threats to sovereignty .
noLabel	With surveys disclosing that as many as 2.5 percent of eighth graders have used anabolic steroids, this high percentage should compel us as a nation to move the issue from the sports pages to the front pages.	After the sprinter Ben Johnson disgraced Canada in 1988 by cheating with steroids, the government created the Dubin commission to address that shameful event in the country's sports history.
noLabel	In his paper, Understanding Why Crime Fell in the 1990s: Four Factors that Explain the Decline and Six that Do not, Although guns are frequently used in the U.S. in committing suicide, the overwhelming evidence compiled from the psychiatric literature is that the real culprit is untreated or poorly managed depression.	In other countries, other methods of suicide are used at even higher rates than the U.S., so gun availability affects the method used but not overall suicide rates .
noLabel	A film is Refused Classification if it contains material that offend against the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults to the extent that it should not be classified.	The distribution and exhibition of such films is a criminal offence that carries a fine of up to A$275,000 and/or 10 years jail. 
noLabel	It is obvious now from the models, the data, and the theory that there is no one overarching effect of diversity on productivity.	Scientists must try to quantify the differences between composition effect and diversity effects, as many experiments never quantify the final realized species diversity (instead only counting numbers of species of seeds planted) and confound a sampling effect for facilitators (a compositional factor) with diversity effects. 
noLabel	For instance, Vesalius was imperative for advocating the use of Galen, but he also invigorated this text with experimentation, disagreements and further research .	The propagation of these texts, especially within the universities, was greatly aided by the emergence of the printing press and the beginning of the use of the vernacular, which allowed for the printing of relatively large texts at reasonable prices . 
noLabel	The initial request for an advisory opinion by the ICJ was presented by the World Health Organization (WHO) on 3 September 1993, but the ICJ did not render an opinion on this request because the WHO was ultra vires, or acting outside its legal capacity.	Another request was presented by the United Nations General Assembly in December 1994 and accepted by the Court in January 1995, the ICJ handed down an advisory opinion on 8 July 1996 the Legality of the Threat or Use of Nuclear Weapons case.
noLabel	The International Conference on Nuclear Disarmament took place in Oslo in February, 2008, and was organized by The Government of Norway, the Nuclear Threat Initiative and the Hoover Institute.	The Conference was entitled Achieving the Vision of a World Free of Nuclear Weapons and had the purpose of building consensus between nuclear weapon states and non-nuclear weapon states in relation to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty . 
noLabel	According to de Soto, this is the process by which physical assets are transformed into capital, which in turn may be used in many more ways and much more efficiently in the market economy.	A number of Marxian economists have argued that the Enclosure Acts in England, and similar legislation elsewhere, were an integral part of capitalist primitive accumulation and that specific legal frameworks of private land ownership have been integral to the development of capitalism .
noLabel	This was not the only frustration and cause of wasted effort; before 1993, when an asylum application was nearing completion enforcement immigration officers would be asked to re-interview the applicant and serve them with a “minded to refuse notice”.	This, as the name suggests, was a letter informing the applicant that the Home Office was thinking of refusing their application and inviting them to come up with more grounds to support their asylum claim.
noLabel	The 1991 Council Directive 91/477/EEC started the process of creating a new common legal system for gun owners in the EU, and introduced the European Firearms Pass for owners carrying firearms from one member state to another.	In late 2007 the European Parliament and Council adopted a legislative report to tighten gun control laws and establish an extensive firearms database .
noLabel	In addition, we will provide military advice and equipment to free nations which will cooperate with us in the maintenance of peace and security.	Fourth, we must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our scientific advances and industrial progress available for the improvement and growth of underdeveloped areas.
noLabel	The 20th century saw the advancement of technologies that improved treatment and diagnosis such as the development of imaging tools including CT and MRI, and, in the 21st century, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI).	The introduction of intracranial pressure monitoring in the 1950s has been credited with beginning the "modern era" of head injury .
noLabel	Rugby union - which remained amateur - was predominant in the rest of England, as well as in Wales and Scotland.	Rugby union also had a more affluent reputation, although there are areas - notably in South Wales and in certain English cities such as Gloucester - with a strong working-class rugby union tradition.
noLabel	The AFL claimed to not exclude the black members because of their race but because they were not qualified for the part.	"So as long as wages rose, and they did, hours fell, and they did, security increased, and it appeared to, the AFL could grow fat while neglecting millions of labourers doomed to lives of misery and want.
noLabel	Though Dipper noted no one in the German resistance supported the Holocaust, he also commented that the national-conservatives did not intend to restore civil rights to the Jews after the planned overthrow of Hitler .	Dipper went on to argue that, based on such views held by opponents of the regime, "a large part of the German people..believed that a "Jewish Question" existed and had to be solved.." .
noLabel	The largest public school system in the United States is in New York City, where more than one million students are taught in 1,200 separate public schools.	Because of its immense size – there are more students in the system than residents in eight US states – the New York City public school system is nationally influential in determining standards and materials, such as textbooks. 
noLabel	Within heterodox economics, the paradox was criticized by the Austrian School economist and Nobel Prize winner Friedrich Hayek in a 1929 article, "The 'Paradox' of Savings", attacking the paradox as proposed by Foster and Catchings .	Hayek and later Austrian School economists agree that if a population saves more money, total revenues for companies will decline, but they deny the assertion that lower revenues lead to lower economic growth. 
noLabel	Never before has a tragedy elicited so much witness from the killers, from the victims and even from the bystanders—millions of pieces here in the museum what you have, all other museums, archives in the thousands, in the millions.	" He made a similar statement on a special edition of The Oprah Winfrey Show after his final trip to Auschwitz, along with host Winfrey. 
noLabel	UOPX disputed the findings but paid a $9.8 million fine as part of a settlement where it admitted no wrongdoing and was not required to return any financial aid funds .	UOPX's president stated that though recruiters were paid a commission based on the number of students enrolled, their compensation is not based solely on that criteria .
noLabel	Rangel played a specific role in the creation of the 1995 Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corporation, which led to a $500 million spending of public and private monies towards changing the face of Harlem, including gentrification effects .	Rangel served on the corporation's board, and the effort was credited with helping the resurgence of Harlem that took place during the 1990s . 
noLabel	The first criticism is that, following Say's law and the related circle of ideas, if demand slackens, prices will fall (barring government intervention), and the resulting lower price will stimulate demand (though at lower profit or cost – possibly even lower wages).	This criticism in turn has been questioned by Keynesian economists, who reject Say's law and instead point to evidence of sticky prices as a reason why prices do not fall in recession; this remains a debated point. 
noLabel	[4] There has been conflict between cartels since at least the end of the 1980’s but Mexico’s drug problems only became a war at the end of 2006 when then newly elected President Felipe Calderón having been elected on a law and order platform sent federal troops into the state of Michoacán in an attempt to end drug violence.	[5] The actions by the government however did not end the violence but rather escalated it to the point that in 2010 Calderón was worried that the cartels “seek to replace the government.
noLabel	Although the initial focus of the humanist scholars in the university was the discovery, exposition and insertion of ancient texts and languages into the university, and the ideas of those texts into society generally, their influence was ultimately quite progressive.	The emergence of classical texts brought new ideas and lead to a more creative university climate (as the notable list of scholars above attests to).
noLabel	Its in-country enforcement arm was responsible for the detection and removal of immigration offenders such as illegal entrants, illegal workers and overstayers as well as prosecutions for associated offences.	On its disbandment, Immigration Service staff were re-deployed within the short lived Border and Immigration Agency which was itself replaced by the UK Border Agency. 
noLabel	One possible explanation as to why the Framers did not address this issue in the Bill of rights is because the primary forms for both political debate and protest in their time were verbal expression and published word, and they may have been unaware of the possibility of future people using non-verbal expression .	Symbolic speech is distinguished from pure speech, which is the communication of ideas through spoken or written words or through conduct limited in form to that necessary to convey the idea.
noLabel	The Court has spun an intricate, technical web but I fear it has ensnared itself in its own remorseless logic and arrived at a result having no support in the facts of the case or the governing law .In his dissent, he says that "is a distortion of the record" for the majority of the Court to have relied on the defendant's putative conviction for uttering words against the flag, as if "the trial court convicted him for speech alone, and acquitted him of flag burning.	" He then cites a string of decisions in support of the proposition that if a defendant is convicted of one crime as a result of his commission of two putatively illegal acts (burning the flag and speaking against the flag), and the conviction was invalid as to one act (speaking against the flag), this does not invalidate the conviction of the other act (burning the flag), and suggests that even if the conviction be reversed it should be remanded for resentencing only. 
noLabel	The American Legacy Foundation receives the majority of its funding from payments to the National Public Education Fund established by the Master Settlement Agreement.	The MSA called for payments to the fund for five years and thereafter for years in which the tobacco companies participating in the agreement collectively have a 99.05% market share.
noLabel	This Executive Order provided the basis for the federal government's investigation of the hiring practices than 2,000 colleges and universities, following complaints in the spring of 1970 against 150 institutions by the WEAL and NOW.	A government official said about a dozen had been denied funds for failing to comply with requests for employment records and that all but three eventually complied.
noLabel	Second-class citizen is an informal term used to describe a person who is systematically discriminated against within a state or other political jurisdiction, despite their nominal status as a citizen or legal resident there.	While not necessarily slaves, outlaws or criminals, second-class citizens have limited legal rights, civil rights and economic opportunities, and are often subject to mistreatment or neglect at the hands of their putative superiors.
noLabel	“pork” or “pork barrel” is “a bill or project requiring considerable government spending in a locality to the benefit of the legislator's constituents who live there”,[1] all the countries taxpayers pay for a local project.	Earmarks have become more widely debated in 2010, as the Tea Party movement campaigned against the ballooning federal debt and wasteful government spending and House Republicans pledged in March to deny themselves the use of earmarks.
noLabel	Critics have accused for-profit entities (Educational Management Organizations or EMOs) and private foundations such as the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the Eli and Edythe Broad Foundation, and the Walton Family Foundation of funding Charter school initiatives to undermine public education and turn education into a "Business Model" which can make a profit .	According to activist Jonathan Kozol, education is seen as one of the biggest market opportunities in America or "the big enchilada" .
noLabel	Another view, advanced by Richard Dawkins, is that the existence of God is an empirical question, on the grounds that "a universe with a god would be a completely different kind of universe from one without, and it would be a scientific difference.	" Carl Sagan argued that the doctrine of a Creator of the Universe was difficult to prove or disprove and that the only conceivable scientific discovery that could challenge it would be an infinitely old universe .
noLabel	But he pointed out that his plan (which had now been modified even further since late August) would cut off funds only to portions of school districts.	(For example, if an elementary school in a district integrated, the legislation would require funds to be cut off to all elementary schools in that district—but not to secondary schools.
noLabel	The primary and caucus system is the only method in which voters in Puerto Rico, Guam, and other U.S. territories can have a say in the presidential race.	Under the U.S. Constitution, U.S. territories are not represented in the Electoral College, and thus voters residing in those areas are basically ineligible to vote in the general election.
noLabel	In the 1970s, a logging company received permission from the state to selectively harvest precious hardwoods from Ihera Classified Forest, which continued legally until all trees of commercially valuable size had become rare.	However, illegal logging began when local leaders manipulated the remaining loggers to continue the extracting on a smaller scale for their own benefit . 
noLabel	According to Thomas Sowell, the phrase "Right-wing" is used with so many different meanings that it has almost lost all meaning, except opposition to the Left .	Although the term originally designated traditional conservatives and reactionaries, its usage has been extended to apply to liberal conservatives, classical liberals, libertarian conservatives, Christian democrats and certain types of nationalists .
noLabel	Stations had to notify such persons (or groups) within a week of the attack, send them transcripts of what was said and offer the opportunity to respond on-the-air.	The "political editorial" rule applied when a station broadcast editorials endorsing or opposing candidates for public office, and stipulated that the unendorsed candidates be notified and allowed a reasonable opportunity to respond. 
noLabel	Thus the innate language that expresses the total reciprocal self-giving of husband and wife is overlaid, through contraception, by an objectively contradictory language, namely, that of not giving oneself totally to the other.	This leads not only to a positive refusal to be open to life but also to a falsification of the inner truth of conjugal love, which is called upon to give itself in personal totality.. the difference, both anthropological and moral, between contraception and recourse to the rhythm of the cycle .
noLabel	The small Maya Lacandón communities were outside the monetary economy until recent decades and their main monetary income today comes from the sale of craft items.	In 1972, as part of a state government manoeuvre in relation to timber extraction, the Lacandones were granted formal ownership of the 614,000 hectares of the ‘Bienes Comunales Lacandones’ then established, but in 1978 were obliged to share this with some 15,000 Tzeltal and Chol settlers then granted communal rights.
noLabel	HAVA requires any voter who registered by mail and who has not previously voted in a federal election to show current and valid photo identification or a copy of a current utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck, or other government document that shows the name and address of the voter.	Voters who submitted any of these forms of identification during registration are exempt, as are voters entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act.
noLabel	In March 2009, the Ashkelon urban parent committee decided to keep children out of schools following a surge in the number of rocket attacks on southern Israel and a qassam hit on an empty school in the city.	As a result, only 40 percent of school students and 60 percent of kindergarten children attended, though the municipality had decided to keep schools open .
noLabel	The report, odious to most modern eyes and current attitudes, laid out its cards squarely in favour of racially based immigration controls.	The report discussed the possibility that the British public might react badly to a law that was seen to be overtly racist and attempted to address the central difficulty of putting legislation into place that met its aims without appearing to be racially motivated; a difficult job in the circumstances.
noLabel	After 1945, the goal became to set a uniform and universal standard, determined by the higher awareness gained during World War II of politically and economically motivated systems of forced labour, but debates were hampered by the Cold War and by exemptions claimed by colonial powers.	Since the 1960s, declarations of labour standards as a component of human rights have been weakened by government of postcolonial countries claiming a need to exercise extraordinary powers over labour in their role as emergency regimes promoting rapid economic development . 
noLabel	Princeton sociologists Thomas Espenshade and Alexandria Walton Radford published a book-length study of admissions that found that an upper-middle-class white applicant was three times more likely to be admitted to an American college than a lower-class white with similar qualification.	New York Times columnist Ross Douthat has cited this as an example of how U.S. universities can exacerbate wealth inequality .
noLabel	During the soviet era high quality contraceptives were difficult to obtain, and abortion became the most common way of preventing unwanted births.	Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union abortion rates have fallen considerably, but they are still higher than rates in many developed countries.
noLabel	In one particular country, a non-verbal sign may stand for one thing, and mean something else in another culture or country.	The relation of cross-cultural communication with deviance is that a sign may be offensive to one in one culture and mean something completely appropriate in another.
noLabel	According to USA Today, the bridge was to have been nearly as long as the Golden Gate Bridge and taller than the Brooklyn Bridge .	The bridge would cross the Tongass Narrows, part of Alaska's Inside Passage, so the bridge was designed to be tall enough to accommodate ship traffic, including the Alaska Marine Highway and the cruise ships that frequent Alaskan waters during the summer. 
noLabel	The main distinction between this approach and the more classical evidentialist approach mentioned above is that the presuppositionalist denies any common ground between the believer and the non-believer, except that which the non-believer denies, namely, the assumption of the truth of the theistic worldview.	In other words, presuppositionalists don't believe that the existence of God can be proven by appeal to raw, uninterpreted (or, "brute") facts, which have the same (theoretical) meaning to people with fundamentally different worldviews, because they deny that such a condition is even possible.
noLabel	Some Christians consider birth control a sin, and sex education is based on the belief that sexual intercourse must be "free, total, faithful, and fruitful," and that this is impossible outside the context of marriage.	The “Silver Ring Thing” is a nationwide abstinence-only-until-marriage program, and was heavily backed by the Christian church, which claimed, “This mission can only be achieved by offering a personal relationship with Jesus Christ as the best way to live a sexually pure life.” .
noLabel	After Congress approves an appropriations bill, it is sent to the President, who may sign it into law, or may veto it.	A vetoed bill is sent back to Congress, which can pass it into law with a two-thirds majority in each chamber.
noLabel	After World War II, nuclear weapons were also developed by the Soviet Union (1940's), the United Kingdom and France (1950's), and the People's Republic of China (1960's), which contributed to the state of conflict and extreme tension that became known as the Cold War.	In the 1970s, India, and in the 1990s, Pakistan, two countries that were openly hostile toward each other, developed nuclear weapons.
noLabel	For the first time the region is today poised to move forward, with final status for Kosovo and transitioning continuing responsibilities there to increasing European control – at long last closing the door on the region's painful past," stated McCain at the Munich Security Conference in February 2008 .	During the crisis in the Serbian breakaway province of Kosovo in 1999, McCain urged President Clinton to use all necessary force .
noLabel	They considered that the people were a collective body, possessed of a specific wisdom, which allowed them to understand better than the king the common good, distinct from the interest of each of its parties.	Assimilated to the medieval universitas, the people was thus considered as a legal subject, whose interests were represented by the General Estates .
noLabel	The existence of a "global carrying capacity", limiting the amount of life that can live at once, is debated, as is the question of whether such a limit would also cap the number of species.	While records of life in the sea shows a logistic pattern of growth, life on land (insects, plants and tetrapods)shows an exponential rise in diversity.
noLabel	Hitchens dismisses Buddhism and Hinduism as conceits that seek to "put their [adherents'] reason to sleep .. and discard their minds" in chapter fourteen, which focuses on maladaptive and immiserating Hindu and Buddhist feudalism and violence in Tibet and Sri Lanka.	It touches on the lucrative careers of Chandra Mohan Jain and Sathyanarayana Raju and details his observations of "brisk fleecing", inane rituals, and unstable devotees witnessed during the author's staged pilgrimage to a Hindu ashram in Pune, which was undertaken in support of a BBC documentary.
noLabel	The treaty will enter into force 180 days after the 44 states listed in Annex 2 of the treaty have ratified it.	These "Annex 2 states" are states that participated in the CTBT’s negotiations between 1994 and 1996 and possessed nuclear power reactors or research reactors at that time .
noLabel	 of circumcision in the sources, despite Cogolludo having reported that "circumcision was unknown to the Indians of Yucatan" (pp279, 679) .	But in 1864 Brasseur published his French translation of Diego de Landa's recently recovered 1556 ethnographic manuscript, which decisively rejected the notion of Mayan circumcision, and in a footnote he acknowledged there had probably been a "mistake", an admission that never found its way into the English-language literature although modern ethnography has long since understood the nature of these rituals .
noLabel	It has been proved time and again that cooperative efforts from such diverse sectors as health, education, social welfare, and criminal justice are often necessary to solve what are usually assumed to be purely “criminal” or “medical” problems.	The public health approach considers that violence, rather than being the result of any single factor, is the outcome of multiple risk factors and causes, interacting at four levels of a nested hierarchy (individual, close relationship/family, community and wider society) of the Social ecological model. 
noLabel	Devaluation theory seeks to explain the low-wages that are typical of care work by focusing on the fact that many care workers are women and that gender based biases remain in societies.	In short, devaluation theory asserts that decision makers under- estimate the contribution of female dominated jobs to organizational goals, including profits, and therefore underpay these workers . 
noLabel	Stories of “crack whores” and “crack babies” became commonplace; by 1986, Time had declared “crack” the issue of the year .	Riding the wave of public fervor, Reagan established much harsher sentencing for crack cocaine, handing down stiffer felony penalties for much smaller amounts of the drug, a move that directly targeted the black community . 
noLabel	The patriarchal structure of a society is the single most important factor skewing the sex ratio in favor of males, accentuated in some cultures by the burden of raising a dowry for a daughter's marriage.	Reported sex ratios at birth, outside the typical range of 103:100 to 107:100, thus call for an explanation of some kind. 
noLabel	In Germany, only very few professional associations obtained the right to negotiate salaries and working conditions for their members, notably the medical doctors association Marburger Bund and the pilots association Vereinigung Cockpit.	The engineers association Verein Deutscher Ingenieure does not strive to act as a union, as it also represents the interests of engineering businesses. 
noLabel	It should be noted, however, that the United States and some individual state jurisdictions provide for stronger criminal penalties for crimes when committed against a person because of that person's religious affiliation.	For instance, Section 3A1.1 of the 2009 United States Sentencing Guidelines states that: "If the finder of fact at trial or, in the case of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court at sentencing determines beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant intentionally selected any victim or any property as the object of the offense of conviction because of the actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, gender, disability, or sexual orientation of any person," the sentencing court is required to increase the standard sentencing range .
noLabel	Nicholas of Cusa held to a form of fideism he called docta ignorantia ("learned ignorance"), asserting that God is beyond human categorization, and our knowledge of God is limited to conjecture.	William of Ockham inspired anti-metaphysical tendencies with his nominalistic limitation of human knowledge to singular objects, and asserted that the divine essence could not be intuitively or rationally apprehended by human intellect.
noLabel	In the other Commonwealth realms, the royal prerogative varies significantly from the prerogative in the United Kingdom, and is exercised by the Monarch's representative, the Governor-General.	The Constitution of a Commonwealth realm may sharply limit the prerogative in ways that do not apply in the United Kingdom and many governmental acts which would be done under the prerogative in the United Kingdom are given effect by the Constitution or Acts of Parliament in a Commonwealth realm.
noLabel	On 27 February 2008 civil servant Darryn Walker was arrested by officers from Scotland Yard's Obscene Publications Unit for posting a work of fiction allegedly describing the kidnap, mutilation, rape and murder of the girl band 'Girls Aloud' on a fantasy pornography website.	While the website was hosted outside the UK, Walker's prosecution was possible under UK law as he is a British citizen living in the UK.
noLabel	Another argument is that the rich exploit the poor or otherwise gain unfair benefits, and thus should return some of those benefits.	Another argument is that a larger middle class benefits an economy by enabling more people to be consumers, while providing equal opportunities for individuals to reach a better standard of living. 
noLabel	However, the ANC ruling party does not consider direct state intervention in the redistribution of assets, jobs or opportunities along racial lines to be racial discrimination.	Arguably, if not for the constitution, and interferance by other political parties, the ANC government would have followed the example of Zimbabwe.
noLabel	The third mine in the Athabasca Oil Sands, the Albian Sands consortium of Shell Canada, Chevron Corporation, and Western Oil Sands Inc. [purchased by Marathon Oil Corporation in 2007] began operation in 2003.	Petro-Canada was also developing a $33 billion Fort Hills Project, in partnership with UTS Energy Corporation and Teck Cominco, which lost momentum after the 2009 merger of Petro-Canada into Suncor . 
noLabel	But there was worrying news, too, that more than 40 male tennis players had tested positive for the same drug since September 2002, casting a shadow over the sport.	British sprinter Dwain Chambers was recently banned for two years after testing positive for the steroid THG, which he says he took inadvertently.
noLabel	The Chicxulub impact is one such example, which has previously caused widespread losses in habitat as the Earth either received less sunlight or grew colder, causing certain fauna and flora to flourish whilst others perished.	Previously known warm areas in the tropics, the most sensitive habitats on Earth, grew colder, and areas such as Australia developed radically different flora and fauna to those seen today.
noLabel	A first round of monitoring of the 12 Paris Declaration indicators was conducted in 2006 based on activities undertaken in 2005 in 34 countries.	A second survey was organised in early 2008 in which 54 developing countries examined progress against the targets at country level.
noLabel	This interaction potentially disturbs the normal results of the theory of supply and demand, which assumes that consumers make buying decisions solely based on price and their own personal preference.	Gary Becker has even argued that the bandwagon effect could be so strong as to make the demand curve slope upward.
noLabel	In 2003, the capital gains tax on long-term capital goods decreased from 10% to 5% for both of the bottom two tax brackets (10% and 15%).	In 2008, these same rates were dropped to 0% but were restored to the 2003 rates in 2011 under President Obama via the extension of the Bush Tax Cuts . 
noLabel	The mere contact of the two uranium masses could have caused an explosion with dire consequences, from a simple "fizzle" explosion to an explosion large enough to destroy Tinian (including the 500 B-29s based there, and their supporting infrastructure and personnel).	Water was also a risk, since it could serve as a moderator between the fissile materials and cause a violent dispersal of the nuclear material.
noLabel	Definite statements can be made only on the relative increased or decreased probabilities of contracting a given disease; Philosophically and theoretically speaking, it is impossible to definitively prove a direct causative link between exposure to a radiomimetic poison such as tobacco smoke and the cancer that follows.	Tobacco companies have capitalized on this philosophical objection and exploited the doubts of clinicians, who consider only individual cases, on the causal link in the stochastic expression of the toxicity as actual disease . 
noLabel	In Denmark, libel is a crime, as defined by Article 267 of the Danish Criminal Code, with a penalty of up to six months in prison or a fine, with proceedings initiated by the victim.	In addition, Article 266-b prescribes a maximum prison term of two years in the case of public defamation aimed at a group of persons because of their race, color, national or ethnic origin, religion or “sexual inclination” .
noLabel	Montessori education is characterized by an emphasis on independence, freedom within limits, and respect for a child’s natural psychological development, as well as technological advancements in society.	Although a range of practices exists under the name "Montessori", the Association Montessori Internationale (AMI) and the American Montessori Society (AMS) cite these elements as essential: . 
noLabel	While the theoretical capacity of the four Vanguard-class submarines is 64 missiles and 768 warheads, only 58 missiles were leased and some have been expended in test firings.	The UK leases the missiles but they are pooled with the Atlantic squadron of the USN Ohio SSBNs at King's Bay, Georgia (previously the UK maintained its Polaris missiles). 
noLabel	In 1946 the Atlanta Constitution published a story by reporter David Snell, who had been an investigator with the 24th Criminal Investigation Detachment in Korea after the war, which alleged that the Japanese had successfully tested a nuclear weapon near Konan before being captured by the Russians.	He claimed that he had received his information from a Japanese officer who had been in charge of counter-intelligence at Konan .
noLabel	In the Netherlands LADO is done by the Dutch Immigration Service (IND) and by De Taalstudio, a private company that provides language analysis and contra-expertises in LADO cases.	Language analysis is used by the Dutch Immigration Service, in cases where asylum seekers cannot produce valid identification documents, and, in addition, the IND sees reason to doubt the claimed origin of the asylum seeker.
noLabel	There are approximately 2,000 asylum seekers (from different countries) who are currently being held at various imprisonment facilities in Israel; 1,500 of these are being held at Ketziot Military Prison.	Approximately 13,000 asylum seekers are concentrated in Tel Aviv, Eilat, and Arad, while the remainder is dispersed in moshavim, kibbutzim, and cities . 
noLabel	In February 2012, Haled Meshaal and Palestinian Authority President Mahmud Abbas signed the Hamas-Fatah Doha agreement towards implementation of the 2011 Cairo accords, though Hamas officials in the Gaza Strip expressed their discontent and "unacceptibility" of the Doha agreement.	To date, the Hamas administration, under Prime-Minister Haniye, maiontains only economic ties with the Palestinian National Authority, performing the function of governing Gaza independently.
noLabel	They found that regardless of circumcision status, infants who present with a UTI in the first 6 months of life are more likely to have an underlying genitourinary (GU) structural abnormality.	In the remaining patients with normal underlying anatomy and UTI there were as many circumcised infants as those who retained their foreskin . 
noLabel	Although the Baruch Plan enjoyed wide international support, it failed to emerge from the UNAEC because the Soviet Union planned to veto it in the Security Council.	Still, it remained official American policy until 1953, when President Eisenhower made his "Atoms for Peace" proposal before the U.N. General Assembly.
noLabel	Reagan protégé and former Vice-President George H. W. Bush was next to occupy the oval office, and the drug policy under his watch held true to his political background.	Bush maintained the hard line drawn by his predecessor and former boss, increasing narcotics regulation when the First National Drug Control Strategy was issued by the Office of National Drug Control in 1989, and doing nothing to reduce sentencing disparaties and racial bias carrying over from the Reagan administration. 
noLabel	A dropout recovery initiative is any community, government, non-profit or business program in which students who have previously left school are sought out for the purpose of re-enrollment.	In the United States, such initiatives are often focused on former high school students who are still young enough to have their educations publicly subsidized, generally those 22 years of age and younger. 
noLabel	As CND did not have a national membership until 1966, the strength of public support in its early days can be estimated only from the numbers of those attending demonstrations or expressing approval in opinion polls.	Between 1955 and 1962, between 19% to 33% of people in Britain expressed disapproval of the manufacture of nuclear weapons . 
noLabel	Kisumu (Kenya) and Ndola (Zambia), in Central/East Africa, were selected as the towns with high HIV prevalence, while the low-prevalence towns in West Africa were Cotonou (Benin) and Yaoundé (Cameroon).	"In conclusion, differences in the rate of HIV spread between the East African and West African cities studied cannot be explained away by differences in sexual behaviour alone.
noLabel	Despite this, these governments and banks have not faced the same level of scrutiny from the public as the shipping companies have .	However, as of February 2010, the organized trafficking of illegal wood is being investigated by SAMIFIN (the Malagasy Financial Intelligence Services), which is starting to make these international financial organizations reluctant to participate . 
noLabel	Some lotteries may offer tickets that are worth less than 20% of their price, while others may be worth over 50%.	To raise money, lottery operators must offer tickets worth much less than what one pays for them, so the lottery is a bad choice for customers trying to come out ahead. 
noLabel	The offence may be divided into two great classes: the one, where a person invested with power is induced by payment to use it unjustly; the other, where power is obtained by purchasing the suffrages of those who can impart it.	Likewise, the briber might hold a powerful role and control the transaction; or in other cases, a bribe may be effectively extracted from the person paying it, although this is better known as extortion. 
noLabel	Rights groups report that hundreds of ethnic minority tribespeople are fleeing Burma into the border state of Mizoram, India to escape the military regime.	They claim that they are being forced to join pro-government rallies, in some cases at gunpoint, and if they refuse they face fines of up to 10,000 kyats ($7), while others have been arrested including Christian pastors.
noLabel	The Public Charity Lobbying Law gives nonprofit organizations the opportunity to lobby without losing their nonprofit status with the Internal Revenue Service.	Under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, nonprofit organizations are not allowed to use a "substantial" part of their spending on lobbying, with substantial spending amounting to about 5% of the organization's revenue .
noLabel	Cultural diversity is the quality of diverse or different cultures, as opposed to monoculture, as in the global monoculture, or a homogenization of cultures, akin to cultural decay.	For example, before Hawaii was conquered by Europeans, the culturally diverse Hawaiian culture existed in the world, and contributed to the world's cultural diversity.
noLabel	Instead of emphasizing the divisions among the workers and fostering a narrow interest in the affairs of the craft regardless of those of the industry as a whole, it lays stress on the mutual dependence of the skilled and the unskilled and the necessity of subordinating the interests of a small group to those of the whole body of workers.	Not only is loyalty to fellow-workers in the same industry emphasized, but also loyalty to the whole working class in its struggle against the capitalist system .
noLabel	A major challenge in all nuclear weapon designs is to ensure that a significant fraction of the fuel is consumed before the weapon destroys itself.	The amount of energy released by fission bombs can range from the equivalent of less than a ton of TNT upwards of 500,000 tons (500 kilotons) of TNT . 
noLabel	It is time to step back to understand the historical context of these unfolding events and their bizarre twists and turns, accented by athletes' names, anti-doping protocols and legal wrangling.	The evolving story is more than understanding the complexities of banned substances, drug testing and prosecutions, and deciding who will represent the United States at the Summer Games in Athens.
noLabel	Around December 2009, the video game Alien vs Predator was refused classification due to graphic gore, with the developer refusing to modify the game .	However, the ban was later overturned by the Classification Review Board, with the Board giving it an MA15+ rating with the warning "strong science fiction violence". 
noLabel	There are several versions of the text of the Second Amendment, each with slight capitalization and punctuation differences, found in the official documents surrounding the adoption of the Bill of Rights .	One version was passed by the Congress, while another is found in the copies distributed to the States and then ratified by them. 
noLabel	The rest of the insular region (Philippines and East Timor) practices mostly Roman Catholic Christianity and Singapore practises mostly Mahayana Buddhism .	Significant long-distance labor migration that occurred during the late 19th into the early 20th century provided many different types of ethnic diversity .
noLabel	In 1926, after several years of the revolutionary war and insecurity, President Plutarco Elias Calles, an atheist, enacted the Calles Law, which eradicated all the personal property of the churches, closed churches that were not registered with the State, and prohibited clerics from holding a public office.	The law was unpopular; and several protesters from rural areas, fought against federal troops in what became known as the Cristero War. 
noLabel	Men over age 25 fathered twice as many children of teenage mothers than boys under age 18, and men over age 20 fathered five times as many children of junior high school-aged girls as did junior high school-aged boys.	A 1992 Washington state study of 535 adolescent mothers found that 62% of the mothers had a history of being raped or sexual molested by men whose ages averaged 27 years.
noLabel	The second conception is the idea that environmental human rights can be derived from other human rights, usually – the right to life, the right to health, the right to private family life and the right to property (among many others).	This second theory enjoys much more widespread use in human rights courts around the world, as those rights are contained in many human rights documents. 
noLabel	The events of 2006 involving the foreign prisoners crisis, (see Part 2), prompted a "re-branding" exercise combined with the move to turn IND into an executive agency.	It might be perceived that it was in 2006 that the government finally lost patience with both the Home Office and IND.
noLabel	After the publication of De Morbo Gallico, use of penis coverings to protect from disease is described in a wide variety of literature throughout Europe.	The first indication these devices were used for birth control, rather than disease prevention, is the 1605 theological publication De iustitia et iure (On justice and law) by Catholic theologian Leonardus Lessius: he condemned them as immoral .
noLabel	Saint Elisabeth of Hungary (1207–1231) was a symbol of Christian charity who used her wealth to establish hospitals and care for the poor.	Each of these women were singled out as model Christians by Pope John Paul II in his Mulieris Dignitatem letter on the dignity and vocation of women . 
noLabel	A proposed ban on the international shipment of goods made by children under the age of 16 was amended to ban goods made by children under the age of 14.	A proposal to require an eight-hour work day was amended to require the eight-hour work day or the 40-hour work week (an exception was made for countries where productivity was low).
noLabel	Logical atheism holds that the various conceptions of gods, such as the personal god of Christianity, are ascribed logically inconsistent qualities.	Such atheists present deductive arguments against the existence of God, which assert the incompatibility between certain traits, such as perfection, creator-status, immutability, omniscience, omnipresence, omnipotence, omnibenevolence, transcendence, personhood (a personal being), nonphysicality, justice, and mercy . 
noLabel	They claim that the only possible proof for the existence of God is that the very same belief is the necessary condition to the intelligibility of all other human experience and action.	In other words, they attempt to prove the existence of God by means of appeal to the alleged transcendental necessity of the belief—indirectly (by appeal to the allegedly unavowed presuppositions of the non-believer's worldview) rather than directly (by appeal to some form of common factuality).
noLabel	For, Warren claims, once a human being is born, there is no longer a conflict between it and the woman's rights, since the human being can be given up for adoption.	Killing such a human being would be wrong, not because it is a person, but because it would go against the desires of people willing to adopt the infant and to pay to keep the infant alive. 
noLabel	Some of these games, despite containing objectively violent content, have been affirmatively labeled "non-violent video games" by marketers and faith-based non-violent gaming communities.	In direct response to the Columbine High School massacre (alleged to have been caused by the shooters' obsession with the game, Doom), Rev.
noLabel	It is far better than the ratio achieved by Great Britain and the United States in Iraq or Afghanistan, where both nations employ targeted killings of terrorist leaders."	Regarding the practices which might have led to this record and the reasons the civilian death rate nevertheless remained above zero, Dershowitz cited Col. Richard Kemp's statements on the Gaza War: . 
noLabel	(The Center for Public Integrity's database shows "less than $10,000" in fees paid for both 2003 and 2004; the difference was presumably part of the underreporting that was identified in June 2006.)	In all, the city estimated that Copeland Lowery helped Redlands secure at least $36.7 million in federal money in six years . 
noLabel	According to one of the study's co-authors, Dana Haynie, adolescents who start having sex at a young age may not be prepared to deal with the emotional, social and behavioral consequences of their actions .	Study coauthor Stacy Armour theorized that adolescents "who waited longer than average may be developing friendships and relationships that can help protect them from potentially troublesome behaviors as they become young adults..The timing of events such as sexual activity can have profound consequences for adolescents, particularly when they occur prematurely..[T]he timing of sexual initiation does matter.
noLabel	In 2005, a teacher instructed her senior civics and economics class to take photographs to illustrate the rights contained in the United States Bill of Rights.	One student "had taken a photo of George Bush out of a magazine and tacked the picture to a wall with a red thumb tack through his head.
noLabel	   “The Second Free Speech Debate principle is “We defend the internet and all other forms of communication against illegitimate encroachments by both public and private powers.” Leads to the question of how we defend the internet.	One of the options to defend freedom on the internet is creating software to help evade censorship so keeping the internet open to all.
noLabel	UNHCR's mandate has gradually been expanded to include protecting and providing humanitarian assistance to whom it describes as other persons "of concern," including internally displaced persons (IDPs) who would fit the legal definition of a refugee under the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and 1967 Protocol, the 1969 Organization for African Unity Convention, or some other treaty if they left their country, but who presently remain in their country of origin.	UNHCR presently has major missions in Lebanon, South Sudan, Chad/Darfur, Democratic Republic of Congo, Iraq, Afghanistan as well as Kenya to assist and provide services to IDPs and refugees.
noLabel	According to a report by the National Population and Family Planning Commission, there will be 30 million more men than women in 2020, potentially leading to social instability, and courtship-motivated emigration .	The correlation between the increase of sex ratio disparity on birth and the deployment of one child policy would appear to have been caused by the one-child policy. 
noLabel	After a February 2010 House Ethics Committee report criticizing him for taking sponsored Caribbean trips, the White House backed off its prior support of Rangel somewhat, and within days 14 Democratic members of Congress publicly called on Rangel to step aside as Ways and Means chair .	Other Democrats were concerned that Rangel would impede Democrats' efforts to maintain their majority in the 2010 House elections, but did not say anything publicly out of respect and personal affection for Rangel . 
noLabel	Labelling is a process of social reaction by the "social audience,"(stereotyping) the people in society exposed to, judging and accordingly defining (labeling) someone's behavior as deviant or otherwise.	It has been characterized as the "invention, selection, manipulation of beliefs which define conduct in a negative way and the selection of people into these categories [..]" . 
noLabel	In his book The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism (1904–1905), Weber sought to trace how a particular form of religious spirit, infused into traditional modes of economic activity, was a condition of possibility of modern western capitalism.	For Weber, the 'spirit of capitalism' was, in general, that of ascetic Protestantism; this ideology was able to motivate extreme rationalization of daily life, a propensity to accumulate capital by a religious ethic to advance economically, and thus also the propensity to reinvest capital: this was sufficient, then, to create "self-mediating capital" as conceived by Marx. 
noLabel	Nuclear peace is a theory of International Relations (IR) which argues that under some circumstances nuclear weapons can induce stability and decrease the chances of crisis escalation.	In particular, nuclear weapons are said to have induced stability during the Cold War, when both the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. possessed mutual second-strike retaliation capability, eliminating the possibility of nuclear victory for either side.
noLabel	A report issued by the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools, released in July 2005 and updated in October 2006, looks at twenty-six studies that make some attempt to look at change over time in charter school student or school performance.	Twelve of these find that overall gains in charter schools were larger than other public schools; four find charter schools’ gains higher in certain significant categories of schools, such as elementary schools, high schools, or schools serving at risk students; six find comparable gains in charter and traditional public schools; and, four find that charter schools’ overall gains lagged behind.
noLabel	The husband and wife physically separated and were forbidden to live or cohabit together; but their marital relationship did not fully terminate .	Alternatively, Church laws permitted spouses to petition for an annulment with proof that essential conditions for contracting a valid marriage were absent.
noLabel	However, with the advent of widespread local area networking technologies and Internet based online capabilities, the number of players in modern games can be 32 or higher, sometimes featuring integrated text and/or voice chat.	MMOs can offer extremely high numbers of simultaneous players; Eve Online set a record with 54,446 players on a single server in 2010 .
noLabel	In February 2005, a lawsuit was brought upon the makers and distributors of the Grand Theft Auto series claiming the games caused a teenager to shoot and kill three members of the Alabama police force.	The shooting took place in June 2003 when Devin Moore, 17 years old at the time, was taken in for questioning by police in Fayette, Alabama regarding a stolen vehicle.
noLabel	As Daniel Roche writes, freemasonry was particularly prevalent in France – by 1789, there were perhaps as many as 100,000 French Masons, making Freemasonry the most popular of all Enlightenment associations .	Freemasonry does not appear to have been confined to Western Europe, however, as Margaret Jacob writes of lodges in Saxony in 1729 and in Russia in 1731 . 
noLabel	Often the monarchy was abolished along with the aristocratic system (as in France, China, Russia, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Italy, Greece and Egypt).	Many nations had élite upper houses of legislatures which often had lifetime tenure, but eventually these lost power (as in Britain) or else became elective and remained powerful (as in the United States).
noLabel	"It's very troubling – if real," said Thomas B. Cochran, a senior scientist in the nuclear program of the Natural Resources Defense Council .	The Institute for Science and International Security, said that it "urges caution and further assessment" of the document and noted that "the document does not mention nuclear weapons .
noLabel	"Independent schools in England and Wales, which often break for two weeks more during the summer and have longer holidays at other times of the year than their state counterparts, do not apparently feel the need to change and are apparently not suffering from their reduced hours.	"The changes would require a rewriting of teachers' contracts, which Gove kickstarted this week by asking the independent School Teachers' Review Body to examine working hours.
noLabel	The BCS relies on a combination of polls and computer selection methods to determine relative team rankings, and to narrow the field to two teams to play in the BCS National Championship Game held after the other college bowl games.	The American Football Coaches Association is contractually bound to vote the winner of this game as the BCS National Champion and the contract signed by each conference requires them to recognize the winner of the BCS National Championship game as the official and only Champion.
noLabel	The same interview pointed out that while the Prime Minister would have the constitutional authority to fire the Chief of the Defence Staff, he could not appoint a replacement as the position is appointed by the monarch.	During the Cold War the Prime Minister was also required to name a senior member of the cabinet as his/her designated-survivor, who would have the authority to order a nuclear response in the event of an attack incapacitating the Prime Minister, and this system was re-adopted after the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States. 
noLabel	International standards (including International Commission on Large Dams, ICOLD) define large dams as higher than 15 meters and major dams as over 150 meters in height .	The Report of the World Commission on Dams also includes in the large category, dams, such as barrages, which are between 5 and 15 meters high with a reservoir capacity of more than 3 million cubic meters . 
noLabel	Another good example that illustrates differential modes of acculturation is found in the 2008 documentary Split Horn (directed by Taggart Siegel) about a Hmong Shaman living in Appleton Wisconsin.	Also recommended is Sabine Kuegler's (1980) book Child of the Jungle: The True Story of a Girl Caught Between Two Worlds about a "German" girl who grew up in the Fayu tribe in West Papua with her missionary parents and what happened to her when she "returned" to Europe at age 17. 
noLabel	The relationship between the state, its formal mechanisms, and capitalist societies has been debated in many fields of social and political theory, with active discussion since the 19th century.	Hernando de Soto is a contemporary economist who has argued that an important characteristic of capitalism is the functioning state protection of property rights in a formal property system where ownership and transactions are clearly recorded . 
noLabel	The Universal Declaration on Human Rights (UDHR), adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1948, is one of the most important sources of economic, social and cultural rights.	It recognizes the right to social security in Article 22, the right to work in Article 23, the right to rest and leisure in Article 24, the right to an adequate standard of living in Article 25, the right to education in Article 26, and the right to benefits of science and culture in Article 27 . 
noLabel	This is contrary to a collection of data done by the Office of National Drug Control Policy, which states that purity of street drugs has increased, while price has decreased .	In sharp contrast to the statistics presented by the DEA, the United States Department of Justice released data in 2003 showing that purity of methamphetamine was on the rise .
noLabel	The United Kingdom's largest wind farm (322 MW) is at Whitelee in East Renfrewshire, which has a 217 MW extension under construction, set for completion in 2012 .	The Clyde Wind Farm is a 548 megawatt (MW) wind farm under construction near Abington in South Lanarkshire, Scotland, which will be Europe's largest onshore wind farm when completed .
noLabel	According to historian Shulamith Shahar, "[s]ome historians hold that the Church played a considerable part in fostering the inferior status of women in medieval society in general" by providing a "moral justification" for male superiority and by accepting practices such as wife-beating .	Despite these laws, some women, particularly abbesses, gained powers that were never available to women in previous Roman or Germanic societies . 
noLabel	At this meeting, the delegates drafted a declaration on gene doping which, for the first time, included a strong discouragement of the use of genetic testing for performance.	In September 2010 a WADA funded research project reported for the first time that the direct and long-term detection of gene doping by the abuse of gene transfer techniques is possible in conventional blood samples . 
noLabel	It's one thing for members of the black elite and upper middle class to choose to retire to predominantly black neighborhoods after a lucrative day's work in white America.	It's quite another for people to be unable to enter that commercial sphere because they spent their formative years in a community that didn't, or couldn't, prepare them for it.
noLabel	In Finland, sexual education is usually incorporated into various obligatory courses, mainly as part of biology lessons (in lower grades) and later in a course related to general health issues.	The Population and Family Welfare Federation provides all 15-year-olds an introductory sexual package that includes an information brochure, a condom and a cartoon love story.
noLabel	It has been suggested that the custom of circumcision gave advantages to tribes that practiced it and thus led to its spread .	Darby describes these theories as "conflicting", and states that "the only point of agreement among proponents of the various theories is that promoting good health had nothing to do with it.
noLabel	Desirable actions such as enrolling children in school or receiving vaccinations can be encouraged by a form of aid known as Conditional Cash Transfers .	In Mexico, for example, dropout rates of 16-19 year olds in rural area dropped by 20% and children gained half an inch in height .
noLabel	Elements considered essential to democracy include freedom of political expression, freedom of speech, and freedom of the press, so that citizens are adequately informed and able to vote according to their own best interests as they see them.	The term "democracy" is often used as shorthand for liberal democracy, which may include elements such as political pluralism; equality before the law; the right to petition elected officials for redress of grievances; due process; civil liberties; human rights; and elements of civil society outside the government. 
noLabel	The process was lengthy due to academic and political differences between the Munich Faculty’s selection and that of both the Reichserziehungsministerium (REM, Reich Education Ministry) and the supporters of Deutsche Physik.	In 1935, the Munich Faculty drew up a candidate list to replace Sommerfeld as ordinarius professor of theoretical physics and head of the Institute for Theoretical Physics at the University of Munich.
noLabel	In the late 1940s, lack of mutual trust was preventing the United States and the Soviet Union from making ground towards international arms control agreements, but by the 1960s steps were being taken to limit both the proliferation of nuclear weapons to other countries and the environmental effects of nuclear testing.	The Partial Test Ban Treaty (1963) restricted all nuclear testing to underground nuclear testing, to prevent contamination from nuclear fallout, while the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (1968) attempted to place restrictions on the types of activities which signatories could participate in, with the goal of allowing the transference of non-military nuclear technology to member countries without fear of proliferation. 
noLabel	: a “bet” with an insurer on whether one's house will burn down is not gambling, but rather insurance — as the homeowner has an obvious interest in the continued existence of his/her home independent of the purely financial aspects of the "bet" (i.e., the insurance policy).	Nonetheless, both insurance and gambling contracts are typically considered aleatory contracts under most legal systems, though they are subject to different types of regulation. 
noLabel	Witnesses who refuse to testify may be cited for contempt of Congress, and those who testify falsely may be charged with perjury.	Most committee hearings are open to the public (the House and Senate intelligence committees are the exception); important hearings are widely reported in the mass media and transcripts published a few months afterwards .
noLabel	reasons are the weak (or inexistent) consultation processes with local communities; the lack of criteria to determine when a country is ready to implement REDD projects (reddiness); the negative impacts such as deforestation and loss of biodiversity (due to fast agreements and lack of planning); the lack of safeguards to protect Indigenous Peoples' rights; and the lack of regional policies to stop deforestation.	During the UN climate negotiations in Copenhagen (2009) and Cancun (2010) strong civil society and social movements coalitions formed a strong front to fight the World Bank out of the climate  . 
noLabel	As part of the United Nations declaration of 2011 as the ‘International Year of Forests’, CIFOR convened the Forests Indonesia (Hutan Indonesia) conference on 27 September 2011 at Shangri-La Hotel in Jakarta.	About 1,000 participants representing government, business/private sector, civil society and donor organisations attended the conference to discuss the future of Indonesia’s forests, which comprise the world’s third largest tropical forest area. 
noLabel	For example, more than one third of developing countries surveyed had improved their systems for managing public funds; almost 90% of donor countries had untied their aid; and technical cooperation is more in line with developing countries’ own development programmes.	Despite these improvements, however, the results of the Survey show that the pace of progress remains too slow to reach the targets set in 2010.
noLabel	Although his artistic works and romantic depiction of avian life inspired many bird enthusiasts and conservation organizations, the writings of John James Audubon, by modern standards, show insensitivity toward bird conservation as he shot and collected hundreds of specimens .	Inspired by him, however, the first chapter of the Audubon Society started in 1905 for the purpose of protecting birds .
noLabel	Author Paul Craig Roberts is opposed to legislation in the United States will make it a crime to criticize Israel, and as examples he cites the Global Anti-Semitism Review Act of 2004 and the Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009.	Roberts asserts that lobbyists for Israel are pressing for laws that will make it a crime to discuss the power of the Israel lobby, or to discuss alleged war crimes of Israel . 
noLabel	Economically valuable forests in Ethiopia, which contain the world’s only wild Coffea arabica populations are diminishing and, at current deforestation rates, will be completely lost in 27 years.	Deforestation in Ethiopia is caused by past governmental and institutional changes, insecurity of land tenure, resettlement programs, population pressure, agricultural and infrastructure developments.
noLabel	The main body monitoring and regulating broadcast content in Canada is the Canadian Broadcast Standards Council, a self-governing association of radio and television broadcasters.	The Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC), while also having the power to regulate broadcast content, intervenes only in the most serious and controversial cases. 
noLabel	Adherents of libertarian socialism assert that a society based on freedom and equality can be achieved through abolishing authoritarian institutions that control certain means of production and subordinate the majority to an owning class or political and economic elite .	Libertarian socialism also constitutes a tendency of thought that promotes the identification, criticism and practical dismantling of illegitimate authority in all aspects of life. 
noLabel	Muslim critics have also accused the West, in particular the EU, of double standards in adopting laws that outlaw Holocaust denial.	Denmark, along with Britain and Sweden, have particularly libertarian traditions concerning Holocaust denial and pressed for wording in a recent EU legislation that would avoid criminalizing debates about the Holocaust and would ensure that films and plays about the Holocaust would not be censored .
noLabel	A "Kopimist" or "Kopimist intellectual" is a person who has the philosophical belief that all information should be freely distributed and unrestricted.	This philosophy opposes the privatization of knowledge in all its forms, such as copyright, and encourages piracy of all types of media including music, movies, TV shows, and software . 
noLabel	The consequence of this is that God is then able to legitimately destroy Satan and those allied with them, then no being would ever be tempted to repeat those mistakes.	Since never is an indefinitely long time, the goodness done (no matter how long it takes) in an evil-free universe will inevitably far outweigh any evil generated before that penultimate destruction.
noLabel	Acknowledging the controversy, Paul VI in a letter to the Congress of German Catholics (Aug. 30, 1968), stated: "May the lively debate aroused by our encyclical lead to a better knowledge of God’s will.	" In March 1969, he had a meeting with one of the main critics of Humanae Vitae, Cardinal Leo Joseph Suenens.
noLabel	On daily to weekly timescales, high pressure areas tend to bring clear skies and low surface winds, whereas low pressure areas tend to be windier and cloudier.	On seasonal timescales, solar energy typically peaks in summer, whereas in many areas wind energy is lower in summer and higher in winter .
noLabel	The goal of Let's Move in School is to ensure that every school provides a comprehensive school physical activity program with quality physical education as the foundation so that youth will develop the knowledge, skills, and confidence to be physically active for a lifetime.	Let's Move in School is urging physical educators, parents, school administrators and policymakers to get involved in bringing quality physical education and physical activity to schools through a comprehensive school physical activity program.
noLabel	It is believed that all current nuclear weapons states possess tactical nuclear weapons, with the exception of the United Kingdom, which decommissioned its tactical warheads in 1998.	However, the UK does possess scalable-yield strategic warheads, and this technology tends to blur the difference between "strategic", "sub-strategic", and "tactical" use or weapons.
noLabel	Targeting systems should allow new or newly poor households to access the program and move out the ones that are no longer eligible.	The inputs to good targeting outcomes include adequate staffing; well-defined rules of the game; clearly assigned and sensible institutional roles; and adequate information systems, material inputs, monitoring, and evaluation.
noLabel	Like "utilitarian" and "pragmatic", the word "meritocratic" has also developed a broader definition, used to refer to any government run by "a ruling or influential class of educated or able people.	" This is in contrast to the term originally coined by Michael Young in 1958, who critically defined it as a system where "merit is equated with intelligence-plus-effort, its possessors are identified at an early age and selected for appropriate intensive education, and there is an obsession with quantification, test-scoring, and qualifications.
noLabel	The tremendous scientific and technological changes in Germany of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, together with the growth of the welfare state, created widespread hopes that "utopia" was at hand and that soon all social problems could be solved .	At the same time, owing to the great prestige of science, a scientific racist, social Darwinist and eugenicist world-view which declared some people to be more biologically "valuable" than others was common amongst German elites .
noLabel	The book provoked an immediate response, both positive and negative, and was published with endorsements from scientists, such as Nobel laureate and co-discoverer of the structure of DNA James D. Watson, Harvard psychologist Steven Pinker, as well as popular writers of fiction and the illusionists Penn and Teller .	Nevertheless, the book received mixed reviews from critics: Metacritic reported the book had an average score of 59 out of 100, while London Review of Books criticized Richard Dawkins for not doing a proper research into the topic of his work, religion, and setting up a straw man to make his arguments against theism valid .
noLabel	Even into the early 1990s, however, discussion of the 'liberation' of these discriminated communities, or even their existence, was taboo in public discussion.	In the 1960s the Sayama Incident (狭山事件), which involved the murder conviction of a member of the discriminated communities based on circumstantial evidence (which is generally given little weight vs. physical evidence in Japanese courts), focused public attention on the problems of the group. 
noLabel	An open primary is a primary election that does not require voters to be affiliated with a political party in order to vote for partisan candidates.	In a traditional open primary, voters may select one party's ballot and vote for that party's nomination without being a member of that party.
noLabel	In many of the latter cases, the victim firing in self-defense is frequently a woman or youth victim of a more physically powerful abuser.	In those situations gun rights advocates argue that the firearm becomes an equalizer against the lethal and disabling force frequently exercised by the abusers . 
noLabel	"We are encouraging the Brazilian government to fully endorse the Compensated Reduction proposal", Paulo Moutinho, Scientist and Coordinator of the Climate Change Program of the Amazon Institute for Environmental Research (IPAM), a NGO research institute in Brazil stated .	In Brazil, the cost of reducing deforestation emissions by half will be less than $5 per ton of carbon dioxide, as estimated in an unpublished study of IPAM and the Woods Hole Research Center. 
noLabel	A group (a state or an ethnicity) can spontaneously adopt a different culture due to its political relevance, or to its perceived superiority.	The first is the case of the Latin language and culture, that were gradually adopted by most of the subjugated people. 
noLabel	According to Reporters Without Borders, more than a third of the world's people live in countries where there is no press freedom.	Overwhelmingly, these people live in countries where there is no system of democracy or where there are serious deficiencies in the democratic process.
noLabel	Florida State (12&ndash;1, ACC Champions) was chosen to play undefeated Oklahoma (12&ndash;0, Big 12 champions) in the Orange Bowl for the national championship, despite their one loss coming to another one loss team, the Miami Hurricanes (11&ndash;1, Big East champions), that was ranked #2 in both human polls.	Adding to the controversy, Miami's one loss came to yet another one loss team, the PAC-10 champion Washington Huskies, leaving three teams with a legitimate claim to play Oklahoma in the National Championship game. 
noLabel	For instance, a requirement that applicants for a job be over a certain height would have a greater impact on women than on men, as the average height of women is lower than that of men.	It is a defence for the employer to show that the requirement is “a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim”. 
noLabel	Others define the Enlightenment as beginning in Britain's Glorious Revolution of 1688 or with the publication of Isaac Newton's Principia Mathematica in 1687.	Jonathan Israel argues, "after 1650, everything, no matter how fundamental or deeply rooted, was questioned in the light of philosophic reason" .
noLabel	While the BCS routinely involves controversy about which two teams are the top teams, in rare instances there is a clear-cut top two; the BCS ensures these top two will play each other for the championship.	For example, USC and Texas in 2005 were the only undefeated teams; both teams were only tested a couple of times all season and mauled every other opponent they faced by large margins.
noLabel	" During Operation Cast Lead, the Israeli Defense Forces did more to safeguard the rights of civilians in a combat zone than any other army in the history of warfare.	Israel did so while facing an enemy that deliberately positioned its military capability behind the human shield of the civilian population . "
noLabel	In September 2007, Mexican President Calderón harshly criticized the United States government for the crackdown on illegal immigrants, saying it has led to the persecution of immigrant workers without visas.	"I have said that Mexico does not stop at its border, that wherever there is a Mexican, there is Mexico", he said . 
noLabel	It is exclusionary, rather than inclusive, and consequently, these advertisements promote a negative message about body image to the average person.	Because of this form of media, girls, boys, women and men may feel under high pressure to maintain an unrealistic and often unhealthy body weight or even to alter their physical appearance cosmetically or surgically in minor to drastic ways. 
noLabel	When she scripted a short film on Islamic oppression of women, featuring texts from the Quran on the naked bodies of women, its director Theo van Gogh was assassinated by Mohammed Bouyeri.	Threatened with death and heavily guarded, she spent most of her time in the United States, and moved to Washington in 2006 to work for the American Enterprise Institute.
noLabel	A local-authority elected mayor has powers similar to those of the executive committee in a Leader and Cabinet model local authority.	These are described as either "exclusive" powers or "co-decision" powers and are defined in the Local Government (Functions and Responsibilities) (England) Regulations 2000 . 
noLabel	In a hereditary monarchy, the position of monarch is inherited according to a statutory or customary order of succession, usually within one royal family tracing its origin through a historical dynasty or bloodline.	This usually means that the heir to the throne is known well in advance of becoming monarch to ensure a smooth succession. 
noLabel	This New York business initially manufactured only skin condoms (in 1890 he was arrested by Anthony Comstock for having almost seven hundred of the devices in his house) .	In 1912, a German named Julius Fromm developed a new, improved manufacturing technique for condoms: dipping glass molds into a raw rubber solution .
noLabel	Their primary assertion was that the bonds and emotional development made at home with parents during these years produced critical long term results that were cut short by enrollment in schools, and could neither be replaced nor afterward corrected in an institutional setting .	Recognizing a necessity for early out-of-home care for some children – particularly special needs and starkly impoverished children, and children from exceptionally inferior homes– they maintained that the vast majority of children are far better situated at home, even with mediocre parents, than with the most gifted and motivated teachers in a school setting (assuming that the child has a gifted and motivated teacher).
noLabel	Part of the dues remain with the local affiliate (the district association), part will go to the state association, and part will move on to the national association.	Although dues moves through the state and national associations, a large portion typically comes back to the local chapters through grants. 
noLabel	This is in spite of the fact that tribal communities have far lower levels of income, literacy and health facilities .	It is therefore suggested by many experts, that the low sex ratio in India are attributed by female infanticides and sex-selective abortions. 
noLabel	The theory seeks to understand the ways in which it is possible to reduce the likelihood of criminality developing in individuals.	It does not consider motivational issues, simply stating that human beings may choose to engage in a wide range of activities, unless the range is limited by the processes of socialization and social learning.
noLabel	It is customary, though, for the accession of the new monarch to be publicly proclaimed by the Governor-General on behalf of the Executive Council of New Zealand.	Following an appropriate period of mourning, the monarch is also crowned in the United Kingdom in an ancient ritual, but one not necessary for a sovereign to reign.
noLabel	Federal law mandates that each student receiving special education and related services must have an Individualized Education Program (IEP) developed for them.	An IEP must be designed and written specifically for one student, outlining individualized needs, and used to establish an appropriate educational placement.
noLabel	The term pork barrel politics usually refers to spending that is intended to benefit constituents of a politician in return for their political support, either in the form of campaign contributions or votes.	In the popular 1863 story "The Children of the Public", Edward Everett Hale used the term pork barrel as a homely metaphor for any form of public spending to the citizenry .
noLabel	The percentage of Americans eligible to vote who did, in fact, vote was 63% in 1960, but has been falling since, although there was a slight upward trend in the 2008 election .	Public opinion polls asking people if they approve of the job Congress is doing have, in the last few decades, hovered around 25% with some variation .
noLabel	The racial achievement gap has detrimental effects on minority students in the form of lower reading levels and lower math skills .	However, this gap also has the potential to have negative implications for American society as a whole, especially in terms of workforce quality and the competitiveness of the American economy . 
noLabel	While various abusive uses of this law including political libel (criticism of the political actions or views of others) have ceased to exist in most places but persist in some jurisdictions (notably British Columbia and Ontario) where political views can be held as defamatory.	A common feature of SLAPP suits is forum shopping wherein plaintiffs find favourable courts that will permit claims that the court in which the defendant (or sometimes plaintiffs) live, will not. 
noLabel	Thanksgiving Holiday - End of November (The week of Thanksgiving - 3 days before Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving Day, and the day after - the Friday before the break is sometimes considered a half-day - some areas use variations or do not have this break).	Some areas have the Monday and Tuesday of the Thanksgiving week as regular days and take Wednesday as a half-day; with Thanksgiving and the day after off. 
noLabel	In reviewing the International Court of Justice (ICJ) Bosnian Genocide Case in the judgement of Jorgic v. Germany on July 12, 2007 the European Court of Human Rights quoted from the ICJ ruling on the Bosnian Genocide Case to draw a distinction between ethnic cleansing and genocide.	The term 'ethnic cleansing' has frequently been employed to refer to the events in Bosnia and Herzegovina which are the subject of this case .. General Assembly resolution 47/121 referred in its Preamble to 'the abhorrent policy of 'ethnic cleansing', which is a form of genocide', as being carried on in Bosnia and Herzegovina..
noLabel	As an academic concept, national security can be seen as a recent phenomenon which was first introduced in the United States after World War II, and has to some degree replaced other concepts that describe the struggle of states to overcome various external and internal threats.	The earliest mention of the term national security, however, was made in Yale University in 1790 wherein reference was made to its relation with domestic industries . 
noLabel	The study, published in the Canadian Medical Association Journal in 2006 found that serving chronic street alcoholics controlled doses of alcohol also reduced their overall alcohol consumption.	Researchers found that programme participants cut their alcohol use from an average of 46 drinks a day when they entered the programme to an average of 8 drinks and that their visits to emergency rooms drop to an average of eight a month from 13.5 while encounters with the police fall to an average of 8.8 from 18.1 . 
noLabel	In the year 2000, the United States drug-control budget reached 18.4 billion dollars, nearly half of which was spent financing law enforcement while only one sixth was spent on treatment.	In the year 2003, 53 percent of the requested drug control budget was for enforcement, 29 percent for treatment, and 18 percent for prevention .
noLabel	The Goals 2000 program was essentially replaced by No Child Left Behind, and at that time the United States had not met any of the goals explicitly outlined by the program.	However, other results were mixed: students demonstrated a higher math proficiency in elementary and middle school, but teacher quality and school safety decreased .
noLabel	However, employment is no guarantee of escaping poverty, the International Labour Organisation (ILO) estimates that as many as 40% of workers as poor, not earning enough to keep their families above the $2 a day poverty line .	For instance, in India most of the chronically poor are wage earners in formal employment, because their jobs are insecure and low paid and offer no chance to accumulate wealth to avoid risks .
noLabel	As examples of "good scientists who are sincerely religious", Dawkins names Arthur Peacocke, Russell Stannard, John Polkinghorne and Francis Collins, but says "I remain baffled .. by their belief in the details of the Christian religion.	" He has said that the publication of The God Delusion is "probably the culmination" of his campaign against religion . 
noLabel	The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit ruled in November 2002 that the Federal Wire Act prohibits electronic transmission of information for sports betting across telecommunications lines but affirmed a lower court ruling that the Wire Act "'in plain language' does not prohibit Internet gambling on a game of chance."	But the federal Department of Justice continues, publicly, to take the position that the Wire Act covers all forms of gambling . 
noLabel	The Swedish constitution gives the rights for total anonymity, which can only be lifted ab initio, unless it's a war crime or can otherwise harm the countrys defence or economy, in which case it's considered animus nocendi.	Hate speech laws prohibit threats or expressions of contempt based on race, skin colour, nationality or ethnic origin, religious belief or sexual orientation; some notable recent cases are Radio Islam and Åke Green.
noLabel	In Australia, apartment living is a popular lifestyle choice for DINKY, yuppies, university students and more recently empty nesters, however rising land values in the big cities in recent years has seen an increase in families living in apartments.	In Melbourne and Sydney apartment living is sometimes not a matter of choice for the many socially disadvantaged people who often end up in public housing towers. 
noLabel	A University of Chicago study of youth transitioning out of foster care in Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin found that nearly half of the females had been pregnant by age 19.	The Utah Department of Human Services found that girls who had left the foster care system between 1999 and 2004 had a birth rate nearly 3 times the rate for girls in the general population .
noLabel	Organizations are concerned that the safe third country rule (concept that an applicant will be denied a substantive examination of their claim if they arrived from a country where they could have claimed asylum) is not well considered.	The UNHCR, for instance, argues that the safe third country rule fails to consider whether the applicant really had the chance to apply for asylum in that country, and furthermore, whether the applicant can actually re-enter into that country . 
noLabel	The difficulty is sometimes summed up, in an extreme form, as "All votes for anyone other than the second place are votes for the winner", because by voting for other candidates, they have denied those votes to the second place candidate who could have won had they received them.	It is often claimed by United States Democrats that Democrat Al Gore lost the 2000 Presidential Election to Republican George W. Bush because some voters on the left voted for Ralph Nader of the Green Party, who exit polls indicated would have preferred Gore at 45% to Bush at 27%, with the rest not voting in Nader's absence . 
noLabel	In efforts to eliminate violations of human rights, building awareness and protesting inhumane treatment has often led to calls for action and sometimes improved conditions.	The UN Security Council has interceded with peace keeping forces, and other states and treaties (NATO) have intervened in situations to protect human rights.
noLabel	Moreover, as Patriarch in Venice some had seen a hardening of his stance on social issues as the years went by."	According to Allen "..it is reasonable to assume that John Paul I would not have insisted upon the negative judgment in Humanae Vitae as aggressively and publicly as John Paul II did, and probably would not have treated it as a quasi-infallible teaching.
noLabel	To this end, Folbre questions why women would even take care jobs and argues that the social construction of femininity links femininity and care.	Folbre argues that only by working collectively to ensure a greater supply and quality of care, independent of the market, can we ensure that the responsibility of care is equitably distributed and not disproportionately placed upon women. 
noLabel	Ruth Wedgwood, similarly, said that "the right of visit and search under the law of the sea, or under the law of armed conflict, can be conducted on the high seas" .	She pointed out that the U.S. itself, as a neutral throughout most of the 1800s, submitted its ships to inspections on the high seas to allow belligerents to make sure that its cargoes weren't actually fueling any of the European wars .
noLabel	As presented by Plato in his Symposium, Socrates did not "dally" with young Alcibiades, and instead treated him as his father or brother would when they spent the night sharing a blanket.	And in Xenophon's Symposium Socrates strongly speaks against men kissing each other, saying that doing so will make them slavish, i.e., risk something that seems akin to an addiction to homosexual acts. 
noLabel	Organized crime groups also provide a range of illegal services and goods, such as loansharking of money at very high interest rates, assassination, blackmailing, bombings, bookmaking and illegal gambling, confidence tricks, copyright infringement, counterfeiting of intellectual property, kidnapping, prostitution, drug trafficking, arms trafficking, oil smuggling, organ trafficking, contract killing, identity document forgery, illegal dumping of toxic waste, illegal trading of nuclear materials, military equipment smuggling, nuclear weapons smuggling, passport fraud, providing illegal immigration and cheap labor, people smuggling, trading in endangered species, and trafficking in human beings.	Organized crime groups also do a range of business and labour racketeering activities, such as skimming casinos, insider trading, setting up monopolies in industries such as garbage collecting, construction and cement pouring, bid rigging, getting "no-show" and "no-work" jobs, money laundering, political corruption and bullying.
noLabel	Unlike individual sports such as bicycling, weight-lifting, and track and field, Football (soccer) is not widely associated with performance enhancing drugs.	Like most high-profile team sports, football suffers more from an association with recreational drugs, the case of Diego Maradona and cocaine in 1991 being the best known of those. 
noLabel	To prevent fraud in central tabulation, there has to be a public list of the results from every single polling place.	This is the only way for voters to prove that the results they witnessed in their election office are correctly incorporated into the totals. 
noLabel	From 1601, 'parish' apprenticeships under the Elizabethan Poor Law came to be used as a way of providing for poor, illegitimate and orphaned children of both sexes alongside the regular system of skilled apprenticeships, which tended to provide for boys from slightly more affluent backgrounds.	These parish apprenticeships, which could be created with the assent of two Justices of the Peace, supplied apprentices for occupations of lower status such as farm labouring, brickmaking and menial household service . 
noLabel	Similarly, whole families committed suicide or were killed by near relatives in order to avoid suffering what they believed would be a worse fate at the hands of American forces; for instance, on Zamami Island at Zamami Village, almost everyone living on the island committed suicide two days after Americans landed .	Although the Americans had made plans to safeguard the Okinawans, their fears were not entirely unfounded, as killing of civilians and destruction of civilian property did take place; for example, on Aguni Island, 90 residents were killed and 150 houses were destroyed . 
noLabel	In the case of HIV, sexual transmission routes almost always involve the penis, as HIV cannot spread through unbroken skin, thus properly shielding the insertive penis with a properly worn condom from the vagina or anus effectively stops HIV transmission.	An infected fluid to broken skin borne direct transmission of HIV would not be considered "sexually transmitted", but can still theoretically occur during sexual contact, this can be avoided simply by not engaging in sexual contact when having open bleeding wounds.
noLabel	The paper was the subject of controversy in 2005 when Princeton assistant professor Jesse Rothstein was unable to replicate her results.	Hoxby's methodology in this study has also been criticized, arguing that Hoxby's "assessment of school outcomes is based on the share of students who are proficient at reading or math but not the average test score of the students.
noLabel	Leadership vacuums are sometimes created by law enforcement successes against a particular cartel, thus cartels often will attempt to use law enforcement against one another, either by bribing Mexican officials to take action against a rival or by leaking intelligence about a rival's operations to the Mexican government or the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration .	While many factors have contributed to the escalating violence, security analysts in Mexico City trace the origins of the rising scourge to the unraveling of a longtime implicit arrangement between narcotics traffickers and governments controlled by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), which lost its grip on political power starting in the late 1980s . 
noLabel	The United States is the only democracy in the world that regularly bans large numbers of felons from voting after they have discharged their sentences.	Many countries including Denmark, France, Germany, Israel, Japan, Kenya, Norway, Peru, Sweden, and Zimbabwe allow prisoners to vote (unless convicted of crimes against the electoral system) .
noLabel	Improve accounting rules for forest management in developed countries: More comprehensive accounting on forests will be beneficial both for the climate and for forests.	Participants acknowledged that this is a complex and controversial issue, but success in reaching agreement on new rules would help smooth the way for agreement on new emission reduction commitments by developing countries for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. 
noLabel	Hamas also said that "the government will show no mercy to collaborators who stab our people in the back, and they will be held accountable according to the law.. if any collaborator is sentenced to death, we will not hesitate to carry it out.	" Hamas later accused Fatah of spying for Israel during the conflict, claiming that the espionage was what had enabled Israel to create massive damage and hit targets with precision .
noLabel	 The social pressure exerted by the one-child policy has affected the rate at which parents abandon undesirable children, and many live in state-sponsored orphanages, from which thousands are adopted internationally and by Chinese parents each year.	In the 1980s and early 1990s, poor care and high mortality rates in some state institutions generated intense international pressure for reform . 
noLabel	Within an educational context, Dan J. Pence and J. Arthur Fields observe resistance to the idea that white privilege of this type exists, and suggest this resistance stems from a tendency to see inequality as a black or Latino issue.	One report noted that white students often react to in-class discussions about white privilege with a continuum of behaviors ranging from outright hostility to a "wall of silence.
noLabel	As the job of an FCC commissioner or staffer is often highly technical, and specific knowledge of the dynamics of the telecommunications and media industries must be known, commissioners are often plucked out of high-paying jobs in the industry.	History has shown, due to the fact that FCC Commissioners are appointed only to five-year terms, that there is a revolving door between the Commission and industry .
noLabel	Huseman, author of Business Communication, explains that the two most prominent ways of communication through Kinesics is eye contact and facial expressions.	Eye contact, Huseman goes on to explain, is the key factor in setting the tone between two individuals and greatly differs in meaning between cultures.
noLabel	For example, in a predominantly white society, hiring a person of colour into a position of management may then cause disputes, and damage communications between other employers.	Thus, the company would be economically put in a deficit because of the discrimination of other companies, as they invoke discrimination and isolate that company.
noLabel	Foreshadowing his later ideas, he believed price controls interfered with an essential signaling mechanism to help resources be used where they were most valued.	Indeed, Friedman later concluded that all government intervention associated with the New Deal was "the wrong cure for the wrong disease," arguing that the money supply should simply have been expanded, instead of contracted .
noLabel	Such prohibitions must also comply with the strict requirements of article 19, paragraph 3, as well as such articles as 2, 5, 17, 18 and 26.	Thus, for instance, it would be impermissible for any such laws to discriminate in favor of or against one or certain religions or belief systems, or their adherents over another, or religious believers over non-believers.
noLabel	One of the foremost areas of concern is a lack of legal rights, for want of an independent judiciary, rule of law, and due process.	Another prominent area of concern is lack of labor rights, which is related to the hukou system, the absence of independent unions, and discrimination against rural workers and ethnic minorities.
noLabel	" In June, Moody's followed suit, warning that if Congress did not quickly raise the debt ceiling above $14.3&nbsp;trillion, the agency might reduce the debt rating.	Moody's also commented on the political process, warning that the heightened polarization on both sides increased the risk of a default .
noLabel	As the rate of tobacco use among men is predicted to decrease, the rate among women is estimated to rise to 20% of the woman population by 2025 .	A major catalyst for this increase in smoking among women is globalization because it allows for the increase in the marketing of tobacco products to middle and low-income areas.
noLabel	Rivers carry four different types of sediment down their riverbeds, allowing for the formation of riverbanks, river deltas, alluvial fans, braided rivers, oxbow lakes, levees and coastal shores.	The construction of a dam blocks the flow of sediment downstream, leading to downstream erosion of these Sedimentary depositional environment, depositional environments, and increased sediment build-up in the reservoir.
noLabel	In December 2005, the College Libertarians at the University of North Carolina at Greensboro staged a protest outside the University's designated protest zones.	The specific intent of the protest was to provoke just such a charge, in order to "provoke the system into action into a critical review of what's going on.
noLabel	The Handbook of Crime Correlates (2009), a review of studies of correlates with crime, states that most studies on immigrants have found higher rates of crime.	However, this varies greatly depending on the country of origin with immigrants from some regions having lower crime rates than the indigenous population .
noLabel	But it is the growth and modernization of China's nuclear arsenal and its assistance with Pakistan's nuclear power programme and, reportedly, with missile technology, which exacerbate Indian concerns.	In particular, Pakistan is aided by China's People's Liberation Army, which operates somewhat autonomously within that country as an exporter of military material.
noLabel	Sustainable energy is the sustainable provision of energy that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.	Technologies that promote sustainable energy include renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectricity, solar energy, wind energy, wave power, geothermal energy, and tidal power, and also technologies designed to improve energy efficiency.
noLabel	It has also been claimed monarchism and republicanism in Australia delineate historical and persistent sectarian tensions with, broadly speaking, Catholics more likely to be republicans and Protestants more likely to be monarchists .	This developed out of a historical cleavage in 19th- and 20th-century Australia, in which republicans were predominantly of Irish Catholic background and loyalists were predominantly of British Protestant background .
noLabel	Sex-selective abortion has been seen as worsening the sex ratio in India, affecting gender issues related to sex compositions of Indian households .	According to the decennial Indian census, the sex ratio in the 0-6 age group in India went from 104.0 males per 100 females in 1981, to 105.8 in 1991, to 107.8 in 2001, to 109.4 in 2011.
noLabel	Human Rights Watch (HRW) has said Israel operates a "two-tier" judicial system in the occupied Palestinian territories, to an effect which provides preferential services, development, and benefits for Jewish settlers while imposing harsh conditions on Palestinians.	In some cases Israel has acknowledged differential treatment of Palestinians, such as barring them from accessing “settler-only” roads and subjecting them to over 500 roadblocks and checkpoints within the West Bank, asserting that the measures are necessary to protect Jewish settlers from attacks by Palestinian armed groups.
noLabel	Vebjørn Selbekk, a Norwegian editor who was threatened in 2006 after he reprinted Danish cartoons of Mohammed in his publication, supported the May 20 protest.	"I think maybe this is the right way to react—with humor, and also to spread this number, so it isn't only a few who sit with all the threats and all the discomfort associated with defending our freedom of speech in this area," he said .
noLabel	One of its main influences was the Romantic nationalist movement at the turn of the 19th century, represented by figures such as Johann Herder (1744–1803), Johan Fichte (1762–1814) in the Addresses to the German Nation (1808), Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831), or also, in France, Jules Michelet (1798–1874).	It was opposed to liberal nationalism, represented by authors such as Ernest Renan (1823–1892), who conceived of the nation as a community, which, instead of being based on the Volk ethnic group and on a specific, common language, was founded on the subjective will to live together ("the nation is a daily plebiscite", 1882) or also John Stuart Mill (1806–1873) .
noLabel	An agricultural subsidy is a governmental subsidy paid to farmers and agribusinesses to supplement their income, manage the supply of agricultural commodities, and influence the cost and supply of such commodities.	Examples of such commodities include wheat, feed grains (grain used as fodder, such as maize or corn, sorghum, barley, and oats), cotton, milk, rice, peanuts, sugar, tobacco, and oilseeds such as soybeans.
noLabel	The Church's rejection of the use of condoms has provoked criticism, especially with respect to countries where the incidence of AIDS and HIV has reached epidemic proportions.	The Church maintains that in countries like Kenya and Uganda, where behavioral changes are encouraged alongside condom use, greater progress in controlling the disease has been made than in those countries solely promoting condoms . 
noLabel	Charter schools in California were guaranteed a set amount of district funding that in some districts amounted to $800 per student per year more than traditional public schools received until a new law was passed that took effect in fall 2006.	Charter advocates claim that their schools generally lack access to funding for facilities and special program funds distributed on a district basis .
noLabel	Three major league general managers, speaking on condition of anonymity, said they had also noticed that some players who had been suspected of using steroids arrived for spring training more slender than they had been in the past.	I guess we won't know until later in the summer if the users just wanted to get past the drug tests before going on a cycle, one general manager said.
noLabel	A notable example of attempted party raiding was Operation Chaos in the Democratic primary in 2008 when Rush Limbaugh encouraged Republicans to vote for Hillary Clinton in an effort to weaken Barack Obama politically .	Another occurred in the 2012 Republican primaries, where many Democratic voters in Michigan voted for weaker GOP candidate Rick Santorum over front-runner Mitt Romney in order to disrupt his campaign .
noLabel	Michael Andrew Gove, MP (born 26 August 1967) is a British politician, who currently serves as the Secretary of State for Education and as the Conservative Party Member of Parliament (MP) for the Surrey Heath constituency.	He is also a published author and former Times journalist and he remains friends with his erstwhile proprietor Rupert Murdoch . 
noLabel	An Israeli military spokesperson said that each item was decided on an individual basis and that food was being let through daily.	According to Tel Aviv NGO Gisha, the amount of food entering Gaza is as of May 2009, about 25% of the pre-June 2007 figures.
noLabel	There is a proposal to build a Solar power station in Victoria, Australia, which would be the world's largest PV power station, at 154 MW .	Other large photovoltaic power stations include the Girassol solar power plant (62 MW), and the Waldpolenz Solar Park (40 MW) .
noLabel	The debate between "comprehensive sex education" (also just called "sex education") and "abstinence-only education" is long-standing in the United States, and exists in many other societies around the world that are split between more sexually progressive groups and those that generally oppose pre-marital sex.	Comprehensive sex education programs, at least in the United States, generally emphasize that abstaining from sex is the safest way to prevent unintended pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections.
noLabel	The settling states agreed to divide the annual MSA payment among themselves according to each state's preset allocable share, rather than according to the volume of sales made in a particular state in a given year .	An NPM's payments into a state's escrow fund, on the other hand, were dependent on the number of cigarettes that the NPM sold in that state in a given year.
noLabel	Bina Agarwal and other feminist economists have critiqued the mainstream model and contributed to a better understanding of intrahousehold bargaining power.	Agarwal argues that a lack of power and outside options for women hinders womens' abilities to negotiate within the family unit.
noLabel	The Knights Templar drug cartel (Spanish: Caballeros Templarios) was created in Michoacán in March 2011 after the death of the charismatic leader of La Familia Michoacana cartel, Nazario Moreno González .	The Cartel is headed by Enrique Plancarte Solís and Servando Gómez Martínez who formed the Knights Templar due to differences with José de Jesús Méndez Vargas, who had assumed leadership of La Familia Michoacana . 
noLabel	Flue cured tobacco was originally strung onto tobacco sticks, which were hung from tier-poles in curing barns (Aus: kilns, also traditionally called ).	These barns have flues run from externally-fed fire boxes, heat-curing the tobacco without exposing it to smoke, slowly raising the temperature over the course of the curing.
noLabel	Similar to the old policy of containment, the United States funded several proxy wars, including support for Saddam Hussein of Iraq during the Iran–Iraq War, support for the mujahideen in Afghanistan, who were fighting for independence from the Soviet Union, and several anti-communist movements in Latin America such as the overthrow of the Sandinista government in Nicaragua.	The funding of the Contras in Nicaragua led to the Iran-Contra Affair, while overt support led to a ruling from the International Court of Justice against the United States in Nicaragua v. United States. 
noLabel	Hindi (spoken just like Urdu) is the federal official language, English has the federal status of associate/subsidiary official language and each state has its own state official language (in the Hindi sprachraum, this reduces to bilingualism).	The Republic of India's state boundaries are largely drawn based on linguistic groups; this decision led to the preservation and continuation of local ethno-linguistic sub-cultures, except for the Hindi sprachraum which is itself divided into many states.
noLabel	As a result, the Charter has attracted both broad support from a majority of the Canadian electorate and criticisms by opponents of increased judicial power.	The Charter only applies to government laws and actions (including the laws and actions of federal, provincial, and municipal governments and public school boards), and sometimes to the common law, not to private activity.
noLabel	Her findings were later criticized by anthropologist Derek Freeman who later investigated her claims of promiscuity and conducted his own ethnography of Samoan society.	Mead called for a change in suppression of sexuality in America and her work directly resulted in the advancement of the sexual revolution in the 1930s.
noLabel	By the early 20th century, the game was associated with poor communities, and could be played for as little as $0.01.	One of the game's attractions to low income and working class bettors was the ability to bet small amounts of money.
noLabel	Compulsory education requirements can generally be satisfied by educating children in public schools, state-certified private schools, or an approved home school program.	In most public and private schools, education is divided into three levels: elementary school, middle school (sometimes called junior high school), and high school (sometimes referred to as secondary education).
noLabel	"National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans (NBSAPs) are the principal instruments for implementing the Convention at the national level (Article 6).	The Convention requires countries to prepare a national biodiversity strategy (or equivalent instrument) and to ensure that this strategy is mainstreamed into the planning and activities of all those sectors whose activities can have an impact (positive and negative) on biodiversity.
noLabel	Naturalism commonly refers to the viewpoint that laws of nature (as opposed to supernatural ones) operate in the universe, and that nothing exists beyond the natural universe or, if it does, it does not affect the natural universe .	Followers of naturalism (naturalists) assert that natural laws are the rules that govern the structure and behavior of the natural universe, that the universe is a product of these laws . 
noLabel	Setting aside questions of efficiency and public versus private control of resources, some privatization transactions can be interpreted as a form of a secured loan, and are criticized as a "particularly noxious form of governmental debt" .	In this interpretation, the upfront payment from the privatization sale corresponds to the principal amount of the loan, while the proceeds from the underlying asset correspond to secured interest payments – the transaction can be considered substantively the same as a secured loan, though it is structured as a sale .
noLabel	In global university rankings, the US dominates more than half the top 50 places (27) and has a total of 72 institutions in the top 200 table under the Times Higher Education World University Rankings .	It has more than twice as many universities represented in the top 200 as its nearest rival, the United Kingdom, which has 29.
noLabel	The primary therapeutic use of nicotine is in treating nicotine dependence in order to eliminate smoking with the damage it does to health.	Controlled levels of nicotine are given to patients through gums, dermal patches, lozenges, electronic/substitute cigarettes or nasal sprays in an effort to wean them off their dependence. 
noLabel	Because the Enola Gay weaponeer "Deak" Parsons was concerned about the possibility of an accidental detonation he did not load the four cordite powder bags into the gun breech until the aircraft was in flight on the mission.	Before climbing to high altitude approaching the target, Parsons' assistant, Morris R. Jeppson, removed three safety plugs from the electrical connection between the internal battery and the firing mechanism .
noLabel	In a major space policy speech in April 2010, Obama announced a planned change in direction at NASA, the U.S. space agency.	He ended plans for a return of human spaceflight to the moon and ended development of the Ares I rocket, Ares V rocket and Constellation program.
noLabel	These are only currently being standardized in Europe as part of the Bologna process, as many different degrees and standards of time to reach each are currently awarded in different countries in Europe.	In most fields the majority of academic researchers and teachers have doctorates or other terminal degrees, though in some professional and creative fields it is common for scholars and teachers to have only master's degrees.
noLabel	This practice allegedly resulted in the drowning of six people between Chios and Karaburun Peninsula on 26 September 2006 while three others disappeared and 31 were saved by Turkish gendarmes and fishermen .	However, there are also numerous non-Turkish claims and testimonies that Turkish authorities and/or citizens lead immigrants through the sea, often resulting to the abandonment and sometimes drowning of said immigrants. 
noLabel	However, from the 1970s and onwards Sweden's GDP growth fell behind other industrialised countries and the country's per capita ranking fell from the 4th to 14th place in a few decades .	From the mid 90s until today Sweden's economic growth has once again accelerated and has been higher than in most other industrialised countries (including the US) during the last 15 years . 
noLabel	It continues the United States' long history of agricultural subsidy as well as pursuing areas such as energy, conservation, nutrition, and rural development .	Some specific initiatives in the bill include increases in Food Stamp benefits, increased support for the production of cellulosic ethanol, and money for the research of pests, diseases and other agricultural problems. 
noLabel	Condom criticism is not limited to external parties; sometimes the very people who use them have problems with them as well.	An entirely subjective but still potentially notable criticism sometimes levelled at the male condom by partners, especially heterosexual partners, who are actually engaging in sexual activity while using them, has in recent history consisted of an aggregate of the following general ideas, or some combination thereof: . 
noLabel	An adequate explanation of why some contingent beings exist would invoke a different sort of being, a necessary being that is not contingent .	A response might suppose each individual is contingent but the infinite chain as a whole is not; or the whole infinite causal chain to be its own cause. 
noLabel	Furthermore the right to education and multilingualism, consumer rights, and capacity building in the context of the right to development have also been identified .	Human rights have been termed the "missing link" between the technology oriented and the value oriented approaches to the Internet . 
noLabel	On November 30, 2011, a group of leading Republican senators introduced legislation aimed at forcing the Obama administration to make a decision on the Keystone XL pipeline within 60&nbsp;days .	On December 13, 2011, the Republicans attached this provision on a bill that also would extend the payroll tax cut set to expire at the end of the year, despite Obama threatening to veto it . 
noLabel	Urine based tests have been upheld in most courts for more than 30 years, however, urinalysis conducted by the Department of Defense has been challenged for reliability of testing the metabolite of cocaine.	There are two associated metabolites of cocaine, benzoylecgonine (BZ) and ecgonine methyl ester (EME), the first (BZ)is created by the presence of cocaine in an aqeous solution with a pH greater than 7.0, while the second (EME) results from the actual human metabolic process.
noLabel	On the same day that the new Act came into force, 1 January 1973, the UK entered the European Economic Community (EEC).	At the same time that immigration restrictions were confirmed for Commonwealth citizens with a traditional allegiance to Britain, a new category of privilege was created for the European nationals who had formed the bulk of the work of the immigrations service for the preceding 50 years.
noLabel	When asked if people had a legitimate reason to question the certificate, she stated, "I think it's a fair question, just like I think past association and past voting records&nbsp;– all of that is fair game."	She also stated that the questions were 'fair play' because, "the weird conspiracy theory freaky thing that people talk about that Trig isn't my real son&nbsp;– 'You need to produce his birth certificate, you need to prove that he's your kid,' which we have done.
noLabel	After Hamas' June win, it ousted Fatah-linked officials from positions of power and authority (such as government positions, security services, universities, newspapers, etc.)	and strove to enforce law by progressively removing guns from the hands of peripheral militias, clans, and criminal groups, and gaining control of supply tunnels.
noLabel	Swedish author Henning Mankell reported that the capture of the Free Mediterranean took place about an hour after the raid on the Mavi Marmara .	Israeli soldiers boarded the ship from three speedboats, and managed to bypass barbed wire that had been placed around the ship.
noLabel	The universal use of elections as a tool for selecting representatives in modern democracies is in contrast with the practice in the democratic archetype, ancient Athens.	As the Elections were considered an oligarchic institution and most political offices were filled using sortition, also known as allotment, by which officeholders were chosen by lot. 
noLabel	The two forms of horseracing in the United Kingdom are National Hunt, which involves jumping over fences or hurdles, and the more glamourous flat racing.	National Hunt is a winter sport and flat racing is a summer sport, but the seasons are very long and they overlap.
noLabel	Virtual manipulatives can be easily accessed on the Internet as stand-alone applets, allowing for easy access and use in a variety of educational settings.	Emerging research into the effectiveness of virtual manipulatives as a teaching tool have yielded promising results, suggesting comparable, and in many cases superior overall concept-teaching effectiveness compared to standard teaching methods.
noLabel	A good example of a world heritage site would be the tropical rainforest, a very specialist ecosystem or climatic climax vegetation that has taken centuries to evolve.	Clearing the rainforest for farmland often fails due to soil conditions, and once disturbed, can take thousands of years to regenerate.
noLabel	However, in effect the order extended the royal prerogative in the Islands, vesting wide discretionary legislative and executive powers in Her Majesty's governor.	The governor remains subject to the amended constitution, and in practice to the instructions of the Queen's Foreign Office in the UK. 
noLabel	In Washington, DC in the late 19th century, a predominantly low income Black school performed higher than three White schools in yearly testing.	This trend continued until the mid 20th century, and during that time the M Street School exceeded national norms on standardized tests . 
noLabel	Finally, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research (NIEER), families with modest incomes (less than $60,000) have the least access to preschool education .	Research suggests that dramatic increases in both enrollment and quality of prekindergarten programs would help to alleviate the school readiness gap and ensure that low-income and minority children begin school on even footing with their peers .
noLabel	Non-white South Africans were taxed differently from white South Africans and were required to carry on them at all times additional documentation, which later became known as “dom passes”, to certify their non-white South African citizenship.	All of these legislative racial laws were abolished through a series of equal human rights laws passed at the end of Apartheid in the early 1990s. 
noLabel	The liberal champions of equality under the law were fully aware of the fact that men are born unequal and that it is precisely their inequality that generates social cooperation and civilization.	Equality under the law was in their opinion not designed to correct the inexorable facts of the universe and to make natural inequality disappear.
noLabel	Donald M. Hooton, the father of a teenager who hanged himself after stopping his steroid use, implored baseball to clean up steroids and addressed players directly.	It's a real challenge for parents to overpower the strong message that's being sent to our children by your behavior, Mr. Hooton said.
noLabel	These ballots are then checked, and a final count of these ballots plus any absentee and special category ballots happens again under the scrutiny of the candidates at premises that have been set up for the purpose by the returning officer.	This process may take several days but the outcome of the election is usually known well before all ballots have been counted and preferences allocated. 
noLabel	The ICC Prosecutor could seek a determination from the Judges of the ICC Pre-Trial Chamber on whether he can open an investigation into crimes committed during the conflict on the basis of a declaration issued by the Palestinian Authority in January 2009.	That declaration accepted the jurisdiction of the ICC over crimes “committed on the territory of Palestine since 1 July 2002.” Legal experts dispute whether the Palestinian Authority is a “state” capable of making such a declaration under the Rome Statute.
noLabel	When war went badly, prices rose and the sans-culottes&nbsp;— poor labourers and radical Jacobins – rioted; counter-revolutionary activities began in some regions.	This encouraged the Jacobins to seize power through a parliamentary coup, backed up by force effected by mobilising public support against the Girondist faction, and by utilising the mob power of the Parisian sans-culottes.
noLabel	Failure to obtain classification is an implicit ban (except for exempt films and games, and publications whose content is not sufficient to warrant restriction to adults) and the Classification Board occasionally refuses to give classification.	All feature films, videos, computer games, and magazines that contain sexual content for commercial release are required to be submitted to this body, made up of "community representatives" appointed by the government for three- or four-year terms. 
noLabel	Former lawyer Jack Thompson has been involved in a number of attempts to get families of murder victims to hold the Grand Theft Auto series accountable for the death of their loved ones.	Due to his conduct in this and related cases, Thompson was disbarred in 2008 and was fined more than $100,000 by the Florida Bar Association . 
noLabel	 The President of Romania Traian Băsescu told the departing Israeli government Oren David that Romania was concerned about the raid on the flotilla that might result in negative consequences for the Middle East Peace Process .	On June 23, 2010 at a summit of Balkan countries in Istanbul Romania was one of the countries that strongly condemned Israel's attack on the aid flotilla as well as the loss of life .
noLabel	However, Sweden is much warmer and drier than other places at a similar latitude, and even somewhat farther south, mainly because of the Gulf Stream .	For example, central and southern Sweden has much warmer winters than many parts of Russia, Canada, and the northern United States .
noLabel	Two former Dynamo Berlin club doctors, Dieter Binus, chief of the national women's team from 1976 to 80, and Bernd Pansold, in charge of the sports medicine center in East-Berlin, were committed for trial for allegedly supplying 19 teenagers with illegal substances .	Binus was sentenced in August, Pansold in December 1998 after both being found guilty of administering hormones to underage female athletes from 1975 to 1984 . 
noLabel	Heath and Potter posit that the more alternative or subversive the foundation feels, the more appealing the Blackspot sneaker will become to the mainstream market.	They believe consumers seek exclusivity and social distinction and have argued that the mainstream market seeks the very same brand of individuality that the foundation promotes; thus they see the foundation as promoting capitalist values . 
noLabel	The same study also found that Hispanic children in the U.S. are much less likely to attend preschool than white children.	Another study conducted in Illinois in 2010 found that only one in three Latino parents could find a preschool slot for his or her child, compared to almost two thirds of other families.
noLabel	This modified version of MAD was seen as a winnable nuclear war, while still maintaining the possibility of assured destruction for at least one party.	This policy was further developed by the Reagan Administration with the announcement of the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI, nicknamed "Star Wars"), the goal of which was to develop space-based technology to destroy Soviet missiles before they reached the U.S. 
noLabel	In 2008, statistics showed that of all Swedes aged 25–64, 15% have completed only compulsory education (as the highest level of attainment), 46% only upper secondary education, 14% only post-secondary education of less than 3 years, and 22% post-secondary education of 3 years or more.	Women are more educated than men (26% of women vs 19% of men have post-secondary education of 3 years or more) .
noLabel	It is assumed that any compiler that is used creates code that can be trusted, but it has been demonstrated by Ken Thompson that a compiler can be subverted using an eponymous Thompson hack to create faulty executables that are unwittingly produced by a well-intentioned developer .	With access to the source code for the compiler, the developer has at least the ability to discover if there is any mal-intention. 
noLabel	Similar to other countries, many foreigners come to Japan to work, sometimes entering the country illegally, and overstaying the terms of their visas.	Their employment tends to be concentrated in areas where most Japanese are not able to or no longer wish to work. 
noLabel	In the Court of Appeal Dillon LJ, Butler-Sloss LJ and Farquharson, LJ held that the employers' conduct had infringed the then effective Employment Protection (Consolidation) Act 1978 s 23.	The employers' action was intended to deter employees from being trade union members and such deterrence was a wholly foreseeable consequence.
noLabel	In the 19th century, this was particularly true of anti-Irish prejudice, which was partly anti-Catholic sentiment, partly anti-Irish as an ethnicity.	This was especially true for Irish Catholics who immigrated to the U.S. in the mid-19th century; the large number of Irish (both Catholic and Protestant) who settled in America in the 18th century had largely (but not entirely) escaped such discimination and eventually blended into the American white population. 
noLabel	The prospects of averting mass extinction seems unlikely when "[..] 90% of all of the large (average approximately ≥50 kg), open ocean tuna, billfishes, and sharks in the ocean" are reportedly gone.	Given the scientific review of current trends, the ocean is predicted to have few surviving multi-cellular organisms with only microbes left to dominate marine ecosystems .
noLabel	As an indirect tactic, lobbyists can try to manipulate public opinion which, in turn, can sometimes exert pressure on congresspersons .	Activities for these purposes include trying to use the mass media, cultivating contacts with reporters and editors, encouraging them to write editorials and cover stories to influence public opinion, which may have the secondary effect of influencing Congress .
noLabel	This system is particularly important in areas where crop production is not feasible because of climate or soil, representing 30-40 million pastoralists .	Mixed production systems use grassland, fodder crops and grain feed crops as feed for ruminant and monogastic (one stomach; mainly chickens and pigs) livestock.
noLabel	Cox takes issue with protestors' focus on income and wealth, and with their embrace of allies such as Susan Sarandon and Russell Simmons, who are themselves in the 1% .	Joseph Barro of National Review offers similar arguments, asserting that the 1% includes those with incomes beginning at $593,000, which would exclude most Wall Street bankers . 
noLabel	The provision of true public goods through consumption subsidies is an example of a type of subsidy that economics may recognize as efficient.	In other cases, such subsidies may be reasonable second-best solutions; for example, while it may be theoretically efficient to charge for all use of public roads, in practice, the cost of implementing a system to charge for such use may be unworkable or unjustified. 
noLabel	In the United States, instant-runoff voting is an umbrella term associated with ranked choice elections where multiple rounds of counting determine majority winners; recipients of the fewest votes are eliminated between rounds, and ballots count for the top-ranked candidate not yet eliminated.	The term "instant runoff" is used because the method approximates a series of runoff elections tallied in rounds, as in an exhaustive ballot election, except voters may not change their preference between rounds. 
noLabel	Similar arguments can be made for tax laws; corporations can evade high taxes by moving operations to countries with lax tax structures.	In countries where the integrity of the state is weak, there can be an incentive for corporations to subvert governments through corrupt means and further undermine the rule of law in those countries in their favor.
noLabel	However, the book was labeled "erotica" in the 1965 case (206 NE 2d 403) and there a division between erotica and obscenity was made—not all items with erotic content were automatically obscene.	Further, the 1965 "John Cleland's 'Memoirs'" case added a further qualification for the proving of "obscenity" -- the work in question had to inspire or exhibit "prurient" (that is, "shameful or morbid") interest. 
noLabel	If an individual is overweight and has excess body fat it could, but won't always, create or lead to health risks.	Reports are surfacing, however, that being mildly overweight to slightly obese &ndash; BMI being between 24 and 31.9 &ndash; may be actually beneficial and that people with BMI between 24 and 31.9 could actually live longer than normal weight or underweight persons .
noLabel	Common Sense Media supported the U.S. Department of Commerce's creation of an "online privacy policy", which would include a "Privacy Bill of Rights" and would make clear which types of personal information companies are allowed to keep on clients .	It has also called for updates to the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) rules to ensure that they keep pace with changes in technology since the law was passed in 1998 – as documented by Common Sense Media in a report to the Federal Trade Commission as part of a review of the law . 
noLabel	The Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) is a federal law enforcement agency under the United States Department of Justice, tasked with combating drug smuggling and use within the United States.	Not only is the DEA the lead agency for domestic enforcement of the Controlled Substances Act, sharing concurrent jurisdiction with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), it also has sole responsibility for coordinating and pursuing U.S. drug investigations abroad.
noLabel	The Expansionary Fiscal Contraction (EFC) hypothesis predicts that, under certain limited circumstances, a major reduction in government spending that changes future expectations about taxes and government spending will expand private consumption, resulting in overall economic expansion.	This hypothesis was introduced by Francesco Giavazzi and Marco Pagano in 1990 in a paper that used the fiscal restructurings of Denmark and Ireland in the 1980s as examples . 
noLabel	In the early morning of 5 July, the French yacht Dignité&nbsp;– Al Karama, carrying eight passengers, evaded the Greek coast guard and left a port near Athens, but turned back on its own after several hours.	Reportedly, the activists aboard aboard the vessel did not want to be the only ones sailing to the Gaza Strip .
noLabel	In December 2011, Congress voted to give the Obama Administration a 60-day deadline to make a decision on TransCanada's application for the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline .	On January 18, 2012, President Obama confirmed his rejection of the application stating that the deadline for the decision had "prevented a full assessment of the pipeline's impact" .
noLabel	In 1940 the National Defense Research Committee (NDRC) was established, coordinating work under the Committee on Uranium among its other wartime efforts.	In June 1941, the Office of Scientific Research and Development (OSRD) was established, with the NDRC as one of its subordinate agencies, which enlarged and renamed the Uranium Committee as the Section on Uranium.
noLabel	As a result of these studies, a condom aimed at 12 to 14 year old boys is now produced and is available in Switzerland and in certain other countries.	Manufactured by Ceylor, the 'Hotshot' is a lubricated, teat-ended latex condom which is narrower than a standard condom and has a tight band at the opening to ensure that it remains on the boy's penis during intercourse.
noLabel	There have been several significant riots in California prisons where Mexican American and African American inmates have targeted each other particularly, based on racial reasons .	There have been reports of racially motivated attacks against African Americans who have moved into neighborhoods occupied mostly by Mexican Americans, and vice versa . 
noLabel	According to Cadzen a child's language development should be evaluated in terms of his progress toward the norms for his particular speech community .	Other studies using sentence repetition tasks found that, at both third and fifth grades, white subjects repeated Standard English sentences significantly more accurately than black subjects, while black subjects repeated nonstandard English sentences significantly more accurately than white subjects . 
noLabel	Sometimes, a specific and unique information whose very existence is barely known to the public, is kept in a subtle, near-censorship situation, being regarded as "subversive" or "inconvenient".	Michel Foucault's 1978 text "Sexual Morality and the Law" (later republished as "The Danger of Child Sexuality"), for instance - originally published as La loi de la pudeur &#91;literally, "the law of decency"&#93;, defends the decriminalization of statutory rape and the abolition of age of consent laws. 
noLabel	Prior to the union of the Canadas in 1867, the Fathers of Confederation unanimously chose constitutional monarchy to be the foundation of the new polity's form of government, and the elected legislatures of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and the Province of Canada approved.	 Republican idealsby their wider definitiondid, though, still have influence during the setting period following Confederation, when the use of laws and the institutions formed by them was moulded by popular attitudes coexistent with monarchical preference.
noLabel	The fact that pornography was no longer stigmatised by the end of the 1980s, and more mainstream movies depicted sexual intercourse as entertainment, was indicative of how normalised sexual revolution had become in society.	Magazines depicting nudity, such as the popular Playboy and Penthouse magazines, won some acceptance as mainstream journals, in which public figures felt safe expressing their fantasies. 
noLabel	The Renaissance and Reformation eras witnessed a resurgence in religious fervor, as evidenced by the proliferation of new religious orders, confraternities, and popular devotions in the Catholic world, and the appearance of increasingly austere Protestant sects such as the Calvinists.	This era of interconfessional rivalry permitted an even wider scope of theological and philosophical speculation, much of which would later be used to advance a religiously skeptical world-view. 
noLabel	The legal status of the Gaza strip is disputed, Israel maintains that its occupation of Gaza, as defined by Article 6 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, ended following the completion of its unilateral disengagement plan in 2005, asserting that Israel has no functions of government in the Gaza Strip .	This is not accepted by the UN, Human Rights Watch and many other international bodies and NGOs, who still consider Israel to be the occupying power . 
noLabel	The joint WHO/UNAIDS recommendation also notes that circumcision only provides partial protection from HIV and should never replace known methods of HIV prevention.	The Male Circumcision Clearinghouse website was formed by WHO, UNAIDS, FHI and AVAC to provide current evidence-based guidance, information and resources to support the delivery of safe male circumcision services in countries that choose to scale up male circumcision as one component of comprehensive HIV prevention services. 
noLabel	After the boarding took place, Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said that the flotilla of ships "was an armada of hate and violence."	He added that the flotilla attempt to reach Gaza was "a premeditated and outrageous provocation" and claimed that its organizers had ties not only to Hamas, but also to global Jihad, and al Qaida . 
noLabel	They ingest whatever they can get their hands on: drugs marketed under such brand names as Ritalin, Adderall, Concerta, Cylert and Dexedrine, as well as pills passed along by teammates that players can identify only by sight: the little white pills with the orange crosses or the red-and-blue things.	Stand in the middle of your clubhouse and walk 10 feet in any direction, the pitcher David Wells wrote in his 2003 book, Perfect I'm Not: Boomer on Beer, Brawls, Backaches, and Baseball.
noLabel	The Washington D.C. 2010 Mayoral Election was interpreted by political experts as a referendum on Rhee's unpopular tenure as school chancellor .	Following the defeat of incumbent mayor Adrian Fenty in the 2010 Democratic primary election, Rhee called the election results "devastating for the schoolchildren of Washington, D.C." Rhee encouraged education reformers to learn from the election and "be more aggressive and more adamant.
noLabel	It said that if China and India were to consume as much resources per capita as United States or Japan in 2030 together they would require a full planet Earth to meet their needs .	In the longterm these effects can lead to increased conflict over dwindling resources and in the worst case a Malthusian catastrophe. 
noLabel	The first post-Jim Crow era hate crime to make sensational media attention was the beating death of Vincent Chin, an Asian American of Chinese descent in 1982.	He was attacked by a mob of white assailants who were recently laid off from a Detroit area auto factory job and blamed the Japanese for their individual unemployment.
noLabel	Ames's wife was threatened with life imprisonment if her husband did not cooperate; he did, and she was given a five-year sentence.	Hugh Francis Redmond, a CIA officer in China, spent nineteen years in a Chinese prison for espionage—and died there—as he was operating without diplomatic cover and immunity. 
noLabel	Interest in fashion is big in Sweden and the country is headquartering famous brands like Hennes & Mauritz (operating as H&M), J. Lindeberg (operating as JL), Acne, Gina Tricot, Lindex, Tiger of Sweden, Odd Molly, Cheap Monday, Dr. Denim, Gant, Resteröds, Nudie Jeans, WESC, WAX, Uniforms for the Dedicated, Filippa K, Nakkna and Fifth Avenue Shoe Repair within its borders.	These companies, however, are composed largely of buyers who import fashionable goods from throughout Europe and America, continuing the trend of Swedish business toward multinational economic dependency like many of its neighbours.
noLabel	Activist Huwaida Arraf reported that Israeli soldiers attacked those who tried to block them with kicks, tasers, and concussion grenades, and that some people were beaten so severely that they had to be hospitalized .	Arraf said that the Israelis smashed her face against the ground and stepped on it, and that they later handcuffed her and put a bag over her head .
noLabel	By contrast with the predominantly Muslim areas in North Africa and the Horn region, traditional cultures and religions in much of Sub-Saharan Africa have generally exhibited a more liberal attitude vis-a-vis female out-marriage sexual activity.	The latter includes practices such as multiple sexual partners and unprotected sex, high-risk cultural patterns that have been implicated in the much greater spread of HIV in the region . 
noLabel	Following the scientific revelations of the mid-1900s, tobacco became condemned as a health hazard, and eventually became encompassed as a cause for cancer, as well as other respiratory and circulatory diseases.	In the United States, this led to the Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (MSA), which settled the lawsuit in exchange for a combination of yearly payments to the states and voluntary restrictions on advertising and marketing of tobacco products. 
noLabel	Double agent, "is a person who engages in clandestine activity for two intelligence or security services (or more in joint operations), who provides information about one or about each to the other, and who wittingly withholds significant information from one on the instructions of the other or is unwittingly manipulated by one so that significant facts are withheld from the adversary.	Peddlers, fabricators, and others who work for themselves rather than a service are not double agents because they are not agents.
noLabel	There is no natural stock market with investment portfolios into sea horses, amphibians, insects, and other creatures that provide a sustainable supply of ecosystem services that are valuable to society .	The ecological footprint of society has exceeded the bio-regenerative capacity limits of the planet's ecosystems by about 30&nbsp;percent, which is the same percentage of vertebrate populations that have registered decline from 1970 through 2005 .
noLabel	The National Ice Centre in Nottingham, Odyssey Arena in Belfast and the Sheffield Arena all host ice hockey, the largest being the Sheffield Arena which holds in the region of 8,500 spectators.	Several smaller arenas hosting ice hockey and basketball are found around the United Kingdom though these generally hold only a few thousand fans.
noLabel	Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman said: "The Goldstone Commission is a commission established with the aim of finding Israel guilty of crimes ahead of time, [the commission] was dispatched by countries in which the terms 'human rights' and 'combat ethics' are unknown".	He added that "the IDF was forced to deal with the lowest form of terrorists that set themselves the goal of killing women and children [by] hiding behind women and children.
noLabel	Disclosure regimes for the benefit of investors regained attention at the beginning of the 21st century as a number of corporate scandals were linked to accountancy fraud and company director secrecy .	Starting with Enron, the subsequent scandals involving Worldcom, Tyco, Adelphia and Global Crossing prompted the US Congress to impose new information disclosure obligations on companies with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 .
noLabel	The main trend regarding the history of U.S. foreign policy since the American Revolution is the shift from non-interventionism before and after World War I, to its growth as a world power and global hegemon during and since World War II and the end of the Cold War in the 20th century .	Since the 19th century, US foreign policy also has been characterized by a shift from the realist school to the idealistic or Wilsonian school of international relations . 
noLabel	Care is a unique form of work because it is “intrinsically motivated,” in that not just money motivates people to care .	Folbre argues that care work has been historically undervalued because it has been historically provided by women at low or no cost, and goes far to explain why women earn less than men.
noLabel	One common theme in the homeschool philosophies of both Holt and the Moores is that home education should not be an attempt to bring the school construct into the home, or a view of education as an academic preliminary to life.	They viewed it as a natural, experiential aspect of life that occurs as the members of the family are involved with one another in daily living.
noLabel	In exchange, the companies agreed to curtail or cease certain tobacco marketing practices, as well as to pay, in perpetuity, various annual payments to the states to compensate them for some of the medical costs of caring for persons with smoking-related illnesses.	The money also funds a new anti-smoking advocacy group, called the American Legacy Foundation, that is responsible for such campaigns as The Truth.
noLabel	In some parties, such as the post-communist parties of France and Italy or the Sinn Féin party and the Socialist Party (Ireland), elected representatives of take only the average industrial wage from their salary as a representative or their entire earnings, while the rest goes into party coffers.	Although these examples may be rare nowadays, "rent-seeking" continues to be a feature of many political parties around the world . 
noLabel	Additionally, physical fitness is correlated with immune system function; a reduction in physical fitness is generally accompanied by a weakening of the immune system.	A review in Nature Reviews Cardiology suggests that since illness or injury are associated with prolonged periods of enforced rest, such sedentariness has physiologically become linked to life-preserving metabolic and stress related responses such as inflammation that aid recovery during illness and injury but which due to being nonadaptive during health now lead to chronic diseases . 
noLabel	The PC and DOS ports differ in terms of music score however; the DOS version was more accurate in that factor.	The DOS version came in CD and floppy-disk formats The Amiga version's gameplay was limited to one action button, and featured a cut down soundtrack with music arranged by Allister Brimble. 
noLabel	Additionally, the Bureau of Reclamation which had began a series of western U.S. irrigation projects in the early 20th century was now constructing large hydroelectric projects such as the 1928 Hoover Dam .	The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers was also involved in hydroelectric development, completing the Bonneville Dam in 1937 and being recognized by the Flood Control Act of 1936 as the premier federal flood control agency . 
noLabel	The Pew Research Center's Forum on Religion & Public Life performed a study on religious freedom in the world, for which data were gathered from 16 governmental and non-governmental organisations – including the United Nations, the U.S. State Department and Human Rights Watch - and representing over 99.5 percent of the world's population .	According to the results, that were published in December 2009, about one-third of the countries in the world have high or very high restrictions on religion, and nearly 70 percent of the world's population lives in countries with heavy restrictions on freedom of religion .
noLabel	The Government announced that the same rules would not apply to nationals of Romania and Bulgaria (A2 nationals) when those countries acceded to the EU in 2007.	Instead, restrictions were put in place to limit migration to students, the self-employed, highly skilled migrants and food and agricultural workers . 
noLabel	Walters and Jimenez found that the largest percentage growth in the foreign-born population, was found in either the Midwest or the South in additional none of the traditional gateways were included in this large percentage growth.	Walters and Jimenez noted that a reason these traditional gateways did not have an increase at the same rate of the new gateways was because, new gateways did not have many immigrants to begin with. 
noLabel	On 27 February 2006 the report of the Power Inquiry called for a reduction of the voting age, and of the candidacy age for the House of Commons, to 16 .	On the same day the then Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon Brown, indicated in an article in The Guardian that he favoured a reduction provided it was made concurrently with effective citizenship education . 
noLabel	An Israeli government document obtained in response to the lawsuit describes Israel's blockade as "economic warfare": "A country has the right to decide that it chooses not to engage in economic relations or to give economic assistance to the other party to the conflict, or that it wishes to operate using 'economic warfare' .	"An Israeli government spokesman in June 2010 added that the blockade is intended to bring about a political goal and that Israel "could not lift the embargo altogether as long as Hamas remains in control" of Gaza . 
noLabel	The maintenance and promotion of health is achieved through different combination of physical, mental, and social well-being, together sometimes referred to as the “health triangle” .	The WHO's 1986 Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion furthered that health is not just a state, but also "a resource for everyday life, not the objective of living.
noLabel	At the outset of the 110th Congress, Chairman Robert Byrd and Chairman Dave Obey, his counterpart on the House Appropriations Committee, developed a committee reorganization plan that provided for common subcommittee structures between both houses, a move that the both chairmen hope will allow Congress to "complete action on each of the government funding on time for the first time since 1994."	The subcommittees were last overhauled between the 107th and 108th Congresses, after the creation of the Subcommittee on Homeland Security and again during the 109th Congress, when the number of subcommittees was reduced from 13 to 12. 
noLabel	The components were designed by a team of physicists headed by Academician Yulii Borisovich Khariton and including Andrei Sakharov, Victor Adamsky, Yuri Babayev, Yuri Smirnov, and Yuri Trutnev.	Shortly after the Tsar Bomba was detonated, Sakharov began speaking out against nuclear weapons, which culminated in his becoming a dissident .
noLabel	Bertrand Russell's pamphlet, Why I Am Not a Christian, based on a speech delivered in 1927 and later included in a book of the same title, is considered a classic statement of agnosticism.	The essay briefly lays out Russell’s objections to some of the arguments for the existence of God before discussing his moral objections to Christian teachings.
noLabel	The group Republicans for Environmental Protection issued Chabot an "environmental harm demerit" in 2006 for contributing to urban sprawl by sponsoring H.R.	4772, a bill that allows land use disputes to proceed immediately to federal court; according to the organization, the bill "would have undermined local control over local planning and zoning matters, a central principle of America's federal system.
noLabel	This, according to Steven G. Calebresi and James Lindgren, professors of law at Northwestern University, argued that, because vacancies in the court are occurring with less frequency and justices served on average, between 1971 and 2006, for 26.1 years, the “efficacy of the democratic check that the appointment process provides on the Court’s membership” is reduced .	There have been several similar proposals to implement term limits for the nation’s highest court, including Professor of Law at Duke University, Paul Carrington’s 2005 “The Supreme Court Renewal Act of 2005.” . 
noLabel	Some critics of smoke-free laws emphasise the property rights of business owners, drawing a distinction between nominally public places (such as government buildings) and privately-owned establishments (such as bars and restaurants).	Citing economic efficiency, some economists suggest that the basic institutions of private property rights and contractual freedom are capable of resolving conflicts between the preferences of smokers and those who seek a smoke-free environment, without government intrusion .
noLabel	Sessions threw the file on a table, and remarked, 'I wish I could decline on all of them,'" by which Figures said Sessions meant civil rights cases generally.	After becoming Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee, Sessions was asked in an interview about his civil rights record as a U.S Attorney.
noLabel	Obama has presented a 'New Energy for America' plan to achieve a low carbon economy, subsidizing 5 million new green jobs .	He proposes $150 billion over 10 years to accelerate the commercialization of plug-in hybrids, promote development of commercial scale renewable energy (establishing a 100% federal RPS to require that 10 percent of electricity be derived from renewable sources by 2012 and 25% in 2025), encourage energy efficiency, advance the next generation of biofuels (requiring by 2030) and fuel infrastructure, and begin transition to a new digital electricity grid (smart metering, demand response, distributed generation and electricity storage systems) .
noLabel	Measuring corruption statistically is difficult if not impossible due to the illicit nature of the transaction and imprecise definitions of corruption .	While "corruption" indices first appeared in 1995 with the Corruption Perceptions Index, all of these metrics address different proxies for corruption, such as public perceptions of the extent of the problem . 
noLabel	McCain has criticized Russia and China for causing "gridlock" in the UN Security Council and preventing the sanctioning of Iran as well as other areas of conflict such as Darfur and Burma.	If elected, McCain pledges to create a "league of democracies" with the purpose of addressing those conflicts without the approval of China and Russia . 
noLabel	The Convention was drafted by the Council of Europe after World War II in response to a call issued by Europeans from all walks of life who had gathered at the Hague Congress (1948).	When over 100 parliamentarians from the twelve member nations of the Council of Europe came together in Strasbourg in the summer of 1949 for the first ever meeting of the Council's Consultative Assembly, drafting a "charter of human rights" and creating a Court to enforce it was high on their agenda.
noLabel	Nevertheless, two interlocked issues, one about control and the other about appropriate drug use, were once again out of the bottle.	Not since the 1960's, when Harry Edwards, Tommie Smith and John Carlos used the Olympics as a platform against racism; Muhammad Ali used the heavyweight championship as a pulpit, and Billie Jean King led tennis players -- eventually all players -- out of the desert of sham amateurism, have athletes rebelled so dramatically against management.
noLabel	The new law would outlaw blows to the head in the same way that blows below the waist are banned now.	"At present, if boxers kill or maim opponents in the ring they can't be charged with assault or manslaughter because they have a defence they were acting within the rules."
noLabel	Debated in the U.S. House of Representatives during the immediate aftermath of the September 11th attacks in 2001, the bill drew criticism from the White House and was nearly amended.	The amendment, which failed by a close margin, was proposed by Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI) and would have shifted money away from grain subsidies to conservation measures.
noLabel	27,000 personnel, including 15,000 Marines, contingents from the Navy, Army and Air Force, and their 22,000 family members are stationed in Okinawa .	Since 1960, the U.S. and Japan have maintained an agreement that allows the U.S. to secretly bring nuclear weapons into Japanese ports, and there is speculation (see below) that some nuclear weapons may be located in Okinawa.
noLabel	In the history, the Television engineer Ralph Baer, who conceived the idea of an interactive television while building a television set from scratch created the first video game.	Video games are now also being exploited by pay-TV companies which allow you to simply attach your computer or console to the television cable system and you can simply download the latest game. 
noLabel	The United States Supreme Court, in particular, has ruled that the First Amendment does not require recognition of an opinion privilege.	[17]" To win damages in a libel case, the plaintiff must first show that the statements were "statements of fact or mixed statements of opinion and fact" and second that these statements were false.
noLabel	On the other hand, lower-income groups barely make enough to cover their consumptions, hence only capable of saving a fraction of their incomes or even none.	Assuming both groups earn the same yield rate on their savings, the return on upper-income groups’ savings are much greater than the lower-income groups’ savings because upper-income groups have a much larger base. 
noLabel	others point to Jefferson’s support for a scheme in which students at the University would attend religious worship each morning as evidence that his views were not consistent with strict separation .	Still other scholars, such as Mark David Hall, attempt to sidestep the whole issue by arguing that American jurisprudence focuses too narrowly on this one Jeffersonian letter while failing to account for other relevant history . 
noLabel	The arm of service to which members of the ground force are attached is indicated by branch insignia and piping of distinctive colors: for infantry, red; artillery, yellow; armor, orange; engineers, violet; ordnance, light green; medical, green; army aviation, light blue; signals, blue; quartermaster, brown; transportation, dark violet; airborne, white; and others, dark blue.	The cap badge insignia the GSDF is a sakura cherry blossom bordered with two ivy branches underneath, and a single chevron centered on the bottom between the bases of the branches; the MSDF cap badge insignia consists of a fouled anchor underneath a cherry blossom bordered on the sides and bottom by ivy vines; and the ASDF cap badge insignia features a heraldic eagle under which is a star and crescent which is bordered underneath with stylized wings. 
noLabel	In April 2010, Thomas Andrews Drake, an official with the National Security Agency (NSA), was indicted under the Act for alleged willful retention of national defense information .	The case arose from investigations into his communications with Siobhan Gorman of the Baltimore Sun and Diane Roark of the House Intelligence Committee as part of his attempt to blow the whistle on several issues including the NSA's Trailblazer project .
noLabel	It enabled the creation of the Grande Armée, what Napoleon Bonaparte called "the nation in arms," which overwhelmed European professional armies that often numbered only into the low tens of thousands.	More than 2.6 million men were inducted into the French military in this way between the years 1800 and 1813 . 
noLabel	Most countries regulate gambling but there are still a few who do not, such as Costa Rica, who do not regulate the offshore licenses for gambling that they provide.	For states such as the UK and Gibraltar who do regulate gambling, it is often necessary to have a license to run a lottery or a casino.
noLabel	In December 2007, the Archbishop of Wales Barry Morgan criticized what he referred to as "atheistic fundamentalism", claiming that it advocated the view that religion has no substance and "that faith has no value and is superstitious nonsense.	" He claimed that atheistic fundamentalism led to situations such as councils calling Christmas "Winterval", schools refusing to put on nativity plays and crosses removed from chapels, though others have disputed this . 
noLabel	the business model of Google Books is to display millions of pages of copyrighted and uncopyrighted books as part of a business plan drawing its revenue from advertising).	In contrast, others have pointed out that Google Books blocks-out large sections of those same books, which motivates purchases, and supports the legitimate interests of rightsholders. 
noLabel	The British Medical Association's position (June 2006) was that male circumcision for medical purposes should only be used where less invasive procedures are either unavailable or not as effective.	The BMA specifically refrained from issuing a policy regarding “non-therapeutic circumcision,” stating that as a general rule, it “believes that parents should be entitled to make choices about how best to promote their children’s interests, and it is for society to decide what limits should be imposed on parental choices.” .
noLabel	In May 2009, Danish Member of Parliament Mogens Jensen presented an initiative to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg to lower the voting age in Europe to 16 .	There has also been discussion of giving votes to children from birth, initially with the votes being cast by parents, who are presumed to better understand a child's interests (Demeny voting).
noLabel	At the close of World War II, the Soviet Union had special search teams operating in Austria and Germany, especially in Berlin, to identify and “requisition” equipment, materiel, intellectual property, and personnel useful to the Soviet atomic bomb project.	The exploitation teams were under the Soviet Alsos and they were headed by Lavrentij Beria’s deputy, Colonel General A. P. Zavenyagin.
noLabel	Jennifer Lynch, chief commissioner of the CHRC, stated that Moon's report is "one step in a comprehensive review" and that "we can envision Section 13 being retained with some amendments."	Lynch also stated that that "our commission exists to protect Canadians from discrimination and I'm fervently going to uphold this core principle."
noLabel	Government acquisition of goods and services intended to create future benefits, such as infrastructure investment or research spending, is classed as government investment (gross fixed capital formation), which usually is the largest part of the government .	Acquisition of goods and services is made through own production by the government (using the government's labour force, fixed assets and purchased goods and services for intermediate consumption) or through purchases of goods and services from market producers.
noLabel	In 1689, when William and Mary came to the English throne, they acceded to demands to revoke the original royal charter.	In 1701 the Church of England was proclaimed, and in the course of the eighteenth century Maryland Catholics were first barred from public office, then disenfranchised, although not all of the laws passed against them (notably laws restricting property rights and imposing penalties for sending children to be educated in foreign Catholic institutions) were enforced, and some Catholics even continued to hold public office. 
noLabel	Rivière quickly passed the blame for his fall and his broken back on the team mechanic, accusing him of leaving oil on the wheels and the brakes for not working.	The mechanic was outraged, and the doctors soon found the real reason - that so much painkiller was in Rivière's blood that his hands were too slow to operate the brakes.
noLabel	Universities still use apprenticeship schemes in their production of scholars: bachelors are promoted to masters and then produce a thesis under the oversight of a supervisor before the corporate body of the university recognises the achievement of the standard of a doctorate.	Another view of this system is of graduate students in the role of apprentices, post-doctoral fellows as journeymen, and professors as masters . 
noLabel	The economist did however admit his knowledge of Chile was "too limited to enable [him] to be precise or comprehensive" and that the measures he outlined were "to be taken as illustrative.	" Friedman felt that there might be a brief period ("measured in months") of higher unemployment, followed by recovery once inflation was tamed.
noLabel	Tibi himself saw it as a form of multiculturalism, but from 2000, the term figured prominently in the national political debate in Germany about national identity and immigration.	The term then became associated with a monocultural vision of German society, with ideas of European cultural superiority, and with policies of compulsory cultural assimilation.
noLabel	The School of Science and Technology, Singapore (SST) opened its doors to its first batch of students at its holding site in 2009.	The first batch of students will start their lessons in 2010 at the holding site, and at 2012, the permanent site will be ready.
noLabel	But they were higher than Native Americans in the hierarchy because they could speak English and so were suitable as slaves.	This is a foreshadowing of interminority competition because the two minority groups are being ranked differently, compared to each other . 
noLabel	The stated goal of allowing these purchases was to continue to track the firearms as they were transferred to higher−level traffickers and key figures in Mexican cartels, in theory leading to their arrests and the dismantling of the cartels .	The tactic was questioned during the operations by a number of people, including ATF field agents and cooperating licensed gun dealers .
noLabel	The average age of a University of Phoenix student is between 33 (undergraduate) and 36 (graduate), and most students have work-related commitments .	The University states that nearly two-thirds of its students are women and that a plurality of students attending the school study business (undergraduate students representing 29.9% and graduate students 12.9%), followed closely by those enrolled in Axia College for Associate's degrees (28.1%) . 
noLabel	Adam Smith thought that protectionism against free trade was a scam on the public on behalf of producers, carried out in the name of nationalism.	Even if overall economic interests had not been harmed by tariffs, he was opposed to them on the grounds that patriotism should not be perverted by scoundrels to enrich themselves. 
noLabel	And while money is an important variable, it is one among many variables, and there have been instances in which huge sums have been spent on lobbying only to have the result backfire.	One report suggested that the communications firm AT&T failed to achieve substantial results from its lobbying efforts in 2011, since government antitrust officials rejected its plan to acquire rival T-Mobile . 
noLabel	Some 64,700 men claimed conscientious objector status; local draft boards certified 57,000, of whom 30,000 passed the physical and 21,000 were inducted into the Army.	About 80% of the 21,000 decided to abandon their objection and take up arms, but 3,989 drafted objectors refuse to serve.
noLabel	Executive power is exercised by Her Majesty's Government, which comprises Ministers, primarily the Prime Minister and the Cabinet, which is technically a committee of the Privy Council.	They have the direction of the Armed Forces of the Crown, the Civil Service and other Crown Servants such as the Diplomatic and Secret Services (the Queen receives certain foreign intelligence reports before the Prime Minister does). 
noLabel	In 1960 the construction of Llyn Celyn and the flooding of Capel Celyn provoked political uproar which continues to this day.	More recently, the construction of Three Gorges Dam and other similar projects throughout Asia, Africa and Latin America have generated considerable environmental and political debate.
noLabel	The present Sovereign's full style and title is "Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God, of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and of Her other Realms and Territories Queen, Head of the Commonwealth, Defender of the Faith" .	The title "Head of the Commonwealth" is held by the Queen personally, and is not vested in the British Crown .
noLabel	The ritual expression, Omo te Oshare ("the boy is now man"), constitutes a rite of passage from one age set to another .	For Nilotic peoples, such as the Kalenjin and Maasai, circumcision is a rite of passage observed collectively by a number of boys every few years, and boys circumcised at the same time are taken to be members of a single age set .
noLabel	In many host nations, especially those with a large foreign presence such as South Korea and Japan, the SOFA can become a major political issue following crimes allegedly committed by servicemembers.	This is especially true when the incidents involve crimes such as robbery, murder, manslaughter or sex crimes, especially when the charge is defined differently in the two nations.
noLabel	Despite this, the strong claims made by the doctrine of human rights continue to provoke considerable skepticism and debates about the content, nature and justifications of human rights to this day.	Indeed, the question of what is meant by a "right" is itself controversial and the subject of continued philosophical debate . 
noLabel	The increasing number of former lawmakers becoming lobbyists has led Senator Russ Feingold (D-WI) to propose paring back the many Capitol Hill privileges enjoyed by former senators and representatives.	His plan would deprive lawmakers-turned-lobbyists of privileges such as unfettered access to otherwise "members only" areas such as the House and Senate floors and the House gym.
noLabel	30 professional boxers underwent neurological assessment and genetic testing for the ApoE4 allele, a known genetic risk factor for late-onset sporadic Alzheimer's disease.	The severity of their cognitive, motor, and behavioral impairments was stratified using the Chronic Brain Injury scale, ranging from 0-9 with a score of greater than 0 identified as abnormal.
noLabel	"[A]ny action which either before, at the moment of, or after sexual intercourse, is specifically intended to prevent procreation—whether as an end or as a means" is opposed to this order and is therefore forbidden according to orthodox Catholic teaching.	Thus, artificial birth control methods are forbidden, as are acts intended to end in orgasm outside the context of intercourse (e.g.
noLabel	In contemporary usage, the term democracy refers to a government chosen by the people, whether it is direct or representative .	The term republic has many different meanings, but today often refers to a representative democracy with an elected head of state, such as a president, serving for a limited term, in contrast to states with a hereditary monarch as a head of state, even if these states also are representative democracies with an elected or appointed head of government such as a prime minister . 
noLabel	" Malaysia's government also urged Israel not to take any action that could harm people aboard the Malaysian-funded MV Rachel Corrie which would carry its citizens.	Foreign Affairs Minister Anifah Aman said Israeli authorities should ensure a safe passage for the vessel to deliver its humanitarian cargo .
noLabel	The American welfare state was designed to address market shortcomings and do what private enterprises cannot or will not do themselves.	Unlike welfare states built on social democracy foundations it was not designed to promote a redistribution of political power from capital to labor; nor was it designed to mediate class struggle .
noLabel	Later it turned out that the perpetrators were local Indians themselves, intimidating newcomers who had settled in the abandoned houses of previous settlers.	By chasing them off into the jungle and burning the houses they hoped to prevent future occupations by other competing peasants looking for a piece of land to live on.
noLabel	On 10 November Papandreou resigned as prime minister following an agreement with the New Democracy party and the Popular Orthodox Rally to appoint a new prime minister of common acceptance promulgate laws associated with implementing the new measures that were agreed with the EU .	The person chosen for this task was non-MP technocrat Lucas Papademos, former Governor of the Bank of Greece and former Vice President of the European Central Bank; his appointment was criticised by left-wing parties and branded "unconstitutional" .
noLabel	For a broader debate on the principle of the idea, it may be best for the proposition to simply advocate photo ID cards as a standard requirement, while specifying whether the ID must be issued by the state.	Because this issue is most contentious in the United States, it is likely that many examples will come from there, but there is room for exploration into electoral systems where the issue is less publicized.
noLabel	One of DKT's more notable programs is its work in Ethiopia, where soldiers are required to carry a condom every time they leave base.	The rate of HIV infection in the Ethiopian military, about 5%, is believed to be the lowest among African militaries . 
noLabel	From the other half, the Spartiate was expected to pay his mess (syssitia) fees, and the agoge fees for his children.	However, we know nothing about whether land could be bought and sold, whether it could be inherited, if so by what system (primogenture or equally divided among heirs), whether daughters received doweries and much more .
noLabel	Building on the allegorical sense, the moral sense instructs in regard to action, and the anagogical sense points to man's final destiny.	The teaching of the CCC on Scripture has encouraged the recent pursuit of covenantal theology, an approach that employs the four senses to structure salvation history via the biblical covenants.
noLabel	While the first Soviet atomic bomb test the next month was embarrassing to the British for having been beaten, it was for the Americans another reason for cooperation.	The arrest in early 1950, however, of Klaus Fuchs, a Soviet spy working at Harwell, destroyed the opportunity for renewing the partnership.
noLabel	With the release of the 2010 Browne report and the Government's Comprehensive Spending Review, this model of funding higher education has been modified in England.	From 2012 much more of the responsibility for funding undergraduate university teaching will be placed on students, through increased student loans provided by the UK government .
noLabel	In the subsequent investigation into the background to the problem an accusatory spotlight eventually settled on the management of the Enforcement Directorate on the basis that the Criminal Casework Team had been under their command when the problems came to light.	The timing was deeply unfortunate in that it detracted from the substantial progress that had been made in enforcement and undermined it at a time a debate was being conducted as to its future role.
noLabel	Jean-Sylvain Bailly, president of the Assembly at the time of the Tennis Court Oath, became the city's mayor under a new governmental structure known as the commune.	The King visited Paris, where, on 17 July he accepted a tricolore cockade, to cries of Vive la Nation ("Long live the Nation") and Vive le Roi ("Long live the King") . 
noLabel	At the time, the Canadian military reported that the deaths and injuries were caused by a firefight with the Taliban, which it still insists.	Michel Drapeau, a former colonel with the Canadian Forces, commented that the document is disturbing, due to it differing from the military's report at the time of the soldiers' deaths, which could make the document incorrect.
noLabel	Deep ecologists claim to identify with non-human nature, and in doing so, criticise those who claim that non-human (or non-sentient) lifeforms' needs or interests are inexistant or unknowable.	The criticism is that the interests that a deep ecologist attributes to non-human organisms such as survival, reproduction, growth and prosperity are really human interests.
noLabel	In colonial America, before slavery became completely based on racial lines, thousands of African slaves served European colonists, alongside other Europeans serving a term of indentured servitude .	In some cases for African slaves, a term of service meant freedom and a land grant afterward, but these were rarely awarded, and few former slaves became landowners this way.
noLabel	The working ethos of Mr Haldane-Porter and the service was also starting to gel and was summarised by him in a note to staff as “the person is more important than the document”.	This sound advice was indicative that, even from the earliest times, it was realised that the job of controlling people and identifying deception could not be done by ticking boxes; it relied on a full and objective assessment of all factors. 
noLabel	McCain campaigned against Proposition 200, a 2004 Arizona state initiative intended to prevent illegal immigrants from voting, receiving welfare benefits, and mandated state agencies to report illegals to the federal government.	McCain argued Prop 200 would be overly expensive to execute, that it would be ineffectual, and that immigration regulation falls only under the purview of the federal government . 
noLabel	Israel is seen to possess a nuclear arsenal of about 150 weapons, and Israel has been criticised for maintaining nuclear weapons and for not agreeing to a nuclear-free Middle East zone.	In September 2009, the IAEA passed a resolution that "expresses concern about the Israeli nuclear capabilities, and calls upon Israel to accede to the NPT and place all its nuclear facilities under comprehensive IAEA safeguards.."  . 
noLabel	One effect of popular election of senators was to reduce the difference between the House and Senate in terms of their link to the electorate .	Lame duck reforms according to the Twentieth Amendment ended the power of defeated and retiring members of Congress to wield influence despite their lack of accountability . 
noLabel	Before current levels of world trade were developed, unemployment was demonstrated to reduce inflation, following the Phillips curve, or to decelerate inflation, following the NAIRU/natural rate of unemployment theory, since it is relatively easy to seek a new job without losing one's current one.	And when more jobs are available for fewer workers (lower unemployment), it may allow workers to find the jobs that better fit their tastes, talents, and needs. 
noLabel	Second, barriers to trade resulting from domestic and external producer support, primarily in the form of subsidies, but also including, for example, export credits.	Third, those relating to indirect barriers to trade resulting from developing countries’ lack of institutional capacity to engage in the global economy and in multilateral institutions (e.g., the World Trade Organization) on equal terms.
noLabel	Corporate elections, for instance, usually weight votes according to the amount of stock each voter holds in the company, changing the mechanism to "one share, one vote".	Votes can also be weighted unequally for other reasons, such as increasing the voting weight of higher-ranked members of an organization. 
noLabel	He stated that "the quality of smoke produced by white phosphorus is superb; if you want real smoke for real coverage, white phosphorus will give it to you" .	Professor Newton, expert in laws of armed conflict testifying in front of the committee, said that in an urban area, where potential perils are snipers, explosive devices and trip wires, one effective way to mask forces' movement is by white phosphorus.
noLabel	At birth, the foreskin is almost invariably non-retractable, but this state is transient and resolves in nearly all boys as they mature through puberty.	Such normality, with an unscarred and pliant preputial orifice, is clearly distinguishable from pathological phimosis, a condition unambiguously characterised by secondary cicatrisation of the orifice, usually due to balanitis xerotica obliterans.
noLabel	As, in theory at least, they could be excluded or deported, (for instance following criminal conviction), there still continued checks against warnings lists.	By 1970 the staff numbers within the Immigration Service had risen to approximately 1100 - rather more than double the administration workers at its London HQ .
noLabel	In his 1987 book Der europäische Bürgerkrieg (The European Civil War), Nolte claimed that the intentions of Holocaust deniers are "often honourable", and that some of their claims are "not obviously without foundation" .	Nolte himself, though he has never denied the occurrence of the Holocaust, has claimed that the Wannsee Conference of 1942 never happened, and that the minutes of the conference were post-war forgeries done by "biased" Jewish historians designed to discredit Germany . 
noLabel	Following the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict, an international conference took place in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt, where donors pledged almost $4.5 billion for the resonstruction of Gaza.	These funds bypass Hamas, since the PNA, in collaboration with the donor community, has taken the leadership in delivering and distributing the assistance .India which is aspiring to be recognized as 'Globally respected power' has made concerted efforts in fostering better relations with PA.
noLabel	Furthermore, the Mandaean and Yazidi communities are at the risk of elimination due to the ongoing atrocities by Islamic extremists .	A May 25, 2007 article notes that in the past 7 months only 69 people from Iraq have been granted refugee status in the United States . 
noLabel	These countries have access to American gun owner identities and information (first purchaser only) as a result of traces of recovered firearms contained in the database .	In GAO Report 09-709, ATF reports the National Tracing Center, “conducts the gun traces, and returns information on their findings to the submitting party” . 
noLabel	This dissent called the majority opinion "strained and unpersuasive" and said that the right to possess a firearm exists only in relation to the militia and that the D.C. laws constitute permissible regulation.	In the majority opinion, Justice Stevens' interpretation of the phrase "to keep and bear arms" was referred to as a "hybrid" definition that Stevens purportedly chose in order to avoid an "incoherent" and "[g]rotesque" idiomatic meeting . 
noLabel	Specific harms associated with cannabis include increased accident-rate while driving under intoxication, dependence, psychosis, detrimental psychosocial outcomes for adolescent users and respiratory disease .	Strategies recommended by the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (EMCDDA) to deal with those include roadside drug-testing to deter intoxicated driving and education about patterns of use that increases the risk for dependence, mental health and respiratory problems . 
noLabel	On May 2, 2011, that panel ruled that intermediate scrutiny was the correct standard by which to judge the ordinance's constitutionality and remanded the case to the United States District Court for the Northern District of California .	On November 28, 2011, the Ninth Circuit vacated the panel's May 2 decision and agreed to rehear the case en banc . 
noLabel	As of January 13, 2009, Palestinian militants had launched approximately 565 rockets and 200 mortars at Israel since the beginning of the conflict, according to Israeli security sources .	A source close to Hamas described the movement's use of stealth when firing: "They fired rockets in between the houses and covered the alleys with sheets so they could set the rockets up in five minutes without the planes seeing them.
noLabel	The documentary evidence-including the preexisting political status of tribes, prior Supreme Court precedent, the treaty relationship, and the constitutional clauses acknowledging the distinctive status of tribal polities- clearly support exclusion.	Indian territories, in other words, were not regarded as included in congressional enactments unless the tribe had given its explicit consent and unless they were expressly included in the law. 
noLabel	In November 2009, the IAEA Board of Governors adopted a resolution against Iran which urged Iran to apply the modified Code 3.1 to its Safeguard Agreement, urged Iran to implement and ratify the Additional Protocol, and expressed "serious concern" that Iran had not cooperated on issues that needed "to be clarified to exclude the possibility of military dimensions to Iran's nuclear program.	" Iran said the "hasty and undue" resolution would "jeopardize the conducive environment vitally needed" for successful negotiations and lead to cooperation not exceeding its "legal obligations to the body" .
noLabel	This means that athletics stadiums have to be separately financed and this can only be done with public funds, which have not been forthcoming on a large scale.	The largest athletics stadium built in the UK since the Second World War, the 38,000-capacity City of Manchester Stadium built for the 2002 Commonwealth Games, was reconfigured for football-only use after that event.
noLabel	As hunting and sport-shooting tends to favor rural areas, naturally the bulk of gun owners generally live in rural areas and small towns .	This attribute associates with low involvement in criminal violence, and therefore most guns are in the hands of people who are unlikely to misuse them and who tend to not have criminal records . 
noLabel	In the months ahead of the November 2010 elections, Palin selectively endorsed Republican candidates, and was a significant fundraising asset to those she campaigned for during the primary season .	According to Politico, Palin's criteria for endorsing candidates was whether they had the support of the Tea Party movement and the support of the Susan B. Anthony List .
noLabel	Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.	Furthermore, no distinction shall be made on the basis of the political, jurisdictional or international status of the country or territory to which a person belongs, whether it be independent, trust, non-self-governing or under any other limitation of sovereignty.
noLabel	Anglo conformity ideology of assimilation is a process of inclusion which contains that the word American was created by white Protestant males.	The progress of minorities was judged by Whites and citizenship was granted on the basis of how closely one compared to Whites .
noLabel	As a result of the early unattractiveness of the area, the generation of settlers was able to obtain larger areas of land than the 20 hectares usually available to ejidatarios (heads of family on land distributed under the Mexican agrarian reform laws) elsewhere, with 50 hectares a common allocation.	However, the interior of the Marqués de Comillas triangle remains poorly served by roads, and this has affected the growth of the communities where substantial concentrations of poverty are still found. 
noLabel	Tying REDD into a broader system of carbon trading could allow developed countries or private firms to offset their own emissions and meet emissions reductions targets.	However, some developing countries, such as Brazil and China, maintain that developed countries must commit to real emissions reductions, independent of any offset mechanism . 
noLabel	Having initially waived a second reading of the bill, which would have led to it being immediately referred to Judiciary, Mansfield gave the bill a second reading on February 26, 1964, and then proposed, in the absence of precedent for instances when a second reading did not immediately follow the first, that the bill bypass the Judiciary Committee and immediately be sent to the Senate floor for debate.	Although this parliamentary move led to a filibuster, the senators eventually let it pass, preferring to concentrate their resistance on passage of the bill itself. 
noLabel	Advertising is regulated by the authority of the Federal Trade Commission, a United States administrative agency, to prohibit "unfair and deceptive acts or practices in commerce.	" While it makes laymen's sense to assume that being deceptive is being unfair, deceptiveness in practice has been treated separately by the FTC, leaving unfairness to refer only to other types .
noLabel	The programs involve government action, sometimes with resources being transferred from an advantaged group to a disadvantaged one, and these programs have been justified on the grounds that imposing quotas counter-balances the past discrimination as well as being a "compelling state interest" in diversity in society .	For example, there was a case in Sao Paulo in Brazil of a quota imposed on the São Paulo Fashion Week to require that "at least 10 percent of the models to be black or indigenous", as a coercive measure to counteract a "longstanding bias towards white models.
noLabel	Ginsburg (who replaced White) stated, "this law does not save any fetus from destruction, for it targets only 'a method of performing abortion'.	" The Supreme Court struck down the Nebraska ban by a 5–4 vote in Stenberg v. Carhart (2000), citing a right to use the safest method of second trimester abortion. 
noLabel	After a strong protest by a young French lieutenant in the Ministry of Defence newspaper (Armées d'aujourd'hui), this driving license and rank project was cancelled.	After the Sarkozy election, a new attempt in favour of Arabian-French students was made but Sarkozy did not gain enough political support to change the French constitution.
noLabel	The Council of Trent's catechism—the Roman Catechism, written during the Catholic Church's Counter-Reformation to combat Protestantism and Martin Luther's fideism—echoes St. Thomas:There is a great difference between Christian philosophy and human wisdom.	The latter, guided solely by the light of nature, advances slowly by reasoning on sensible objects and effects, and only after long and laborious investigation is it able at length to contemplate with difficulty the invisible things of God, to discover and understand a First Cause and Author of all things.
noLabel	in 1948, Fuchs gave to the Soviets a detailed update of the classical super progress, including an idea to use lithium, but did not specify it was specifically lithium-6.	Teller accepted the fact that "classical super" scheme was infeasible by 1951, following results obtained by various researches (including Stanislaw Ulam) and calculations performed by John von Neumann in late 1950. 
noLabel	Projects with pondage, as opposed to those without pondage, can store water for peak load demand or continuously for base load, especially during wet seasons .	In general, projects divert some or most of a river’s flow (up to 95% of mean annual discharge) through a pipe and/or tunnel leading to electricity-generating turbines, then return the water back to the river downstream . 
noLabel	Philosophical anarchism is an anarchist school of thought which contends that the State lacks moral legitimacy and -in contrast to revolutionary anarchism- does not advocate violent revolution to eliminate it but advocate peaceful evolution to superate it .	Though philosophical anarchism does not necessarily imply any action or desire for the elimination of the State, philosophical anarchists do not believe that they have an obligation or duty to obey the State, or conversely, that the State has a right to command. 
noLabel	Data from this study also suggested that guns purchased at gun shows travel an even greater distance from the point of sale to the place of use in crime.	Studies suggest that gun shows are a more likely choice for criminal gun trafficking operations, which often move guns long distances across state lines or borders with Mexico and Canada . 
noLabel	In organised sport, records of performance are often kept, and for popular sports, this information may be widely announced or reported in sport news.	In addition, sport is a major source of entertainment for non-participants, with spectator sports drawing large crowds to venues, and reaching wider audiences through sports broadcasting.
noLabel	In 1968, James Tobin, Paul Samuelson, John Kenneth Galbraith and another 1,200 economists signed a document calling for the US Congress to introduce a system of income guarantees .	Winners of the Nobel Prize in Economics, with often diverse political convictions, who support a basic income include Herbert Simon, Friedrich Hayek, Robert Solow, Milton Friedman, Jan Tinbergen, James Tobin
noLabel	The pro-Israel watchdog group CAMERA characterizes Silverstein as a "radical, anti-Israel blogger who repeatedly defends Hamas while blaming the Israeli government, and who promotes Israel as a single state of all its citizens."	Silverstein responded that he believes Israel is a Jewish homeland, that he hopes to see equal rights provided for Jewish and Arab citizens in the country and though he is "agnostic" toward the two-state solution would ultimately prefer that outcome . 
noLabel	A cut-off could be avoided if 10 percent of the school district's voters signed a petition calling for a referendum, and voters approved implementation of a pupil assignment plan (a process intended to allow voters to bypass an integrationist school board) .	Local communities were also permitted to drop the pupil assignment plan if 25 percent of school district voters signed a petition calling for a referendum on the issue and voters approved the referendum . 
noLabel	The crucial goal in maintaining second strike capabilities is preventing first strike attacks from taking out a nation's nuclear arsenal, allowing for nuclear retaliation to be carried out.	The nuclear triad is a way for countries to diversify their nuclear arsenals in order to better ensure second strike capability. 
noLabel	He looked for recommendations shared by many states to avoid controversy and reduce opposition to the ratification of the future amendments .	Additionally, Madison's work on the Bill of Rights reflected centuries of English law and philosophy, further modified by the principles of the American Revolution.
noLabel	Among the country's adult population, over 85 percent have completed high school and 27 percent have received a bachelor's degree or higher.	The average salary for college or university graduates is greater than $51,000, exceeding the national average of those without a high school diploma by more than $23,000, according to a 2005 study by the U.S. Census Bureau .
noLabel	"The chances of an aircraft having a bomb on it are very small," he reasons, "and certainly the chances of having two are almost none!"	A similar example is in the book The World According to Garp when the hero Garp decides to buy a house a moment after a small plane crashes into it, reasoning that the chances of another plane hitting the house have just dropped to zero.
noLabel	The Citizen's Commission to Protect the Truth was founded to ensure continued funding of the truth Campaign, citing its reach to youth and its effectiveness.	Among its citations was a study published in the American Journal of Public Health demonstrating that the Truth campaign has helped reduce smoking among young people.
noLabel	The NES dominated the North American and the Japanese market until the rise of the next generation of consoles in the early 1990s.	Other markets were not as heavily dominated, allowing other consoles to find an audience like the Sega Master System in Europe, Australia and Brazil (though it was sold in North America as well). 
noLabel	Between 1972 and 2009, there were 5,634 criminal offenses committed by US servicemen, including 25 murders, 385 burglaries, 25 arsons, 127 rapes, 306 assaults and 2,827 thefts .	Of the 290,814 crimes committed in Okinawa during the period 1972 to 2001, 1.7% were perpetrated by US Servicemen, a group that comprised 4% of the population . 
noLabel	The Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) is a program administered by the United States Department of Health and Human Services that provides matching funds to states for health insurance to families with children .	The program was designed to cover uninsured children in families with incomes that are modest but too high to qualify for Medicaid.
noLabel	Economist Richard D. Wolff has stated that instead of cutting government programs and raising taxes, austerity should be attained by collecting from non-profit multinational corporations, churches, and private tax-exempt institutions such as universities, which currently pay no taxes at all .	Groups like UK Uncut and the campaigners for a Robin Hood tax argue for a "tax the banks" strategy that is similar, as well as to argue that the banks and corporations severely underpay the taxes they already owe, and need to stop tax-dodging. 
noLabel	The Iraqi News Network stated that "The WikiLeaks documents revealed very important secrets, but the most painful among them are not those that focus on the occupier, but those that reveal what the Iraqi forces, Iraqi government and politicians did against their citizens.	Those leaders who returned to remove Iraq from oppression toppled the dictator but then carried out acts that were worse than Saddam himself.
noLabel	According to Sten Johansson and Ola Nygren (1991) adoptions accounted for half of the so-called "missing girls" in the 1980s in the PRC .	Through the 1980s, as the one-child policy came into force, parents who desired a son but bore a daughter in some cases failed to report or delayed the reporting of the birth of the girl to the authorities.
noLabel	Nichols and McChesney opine that "the maniacal media baron as portrayed in James Bond films or profiles of Rupert Murdoch is far less a danger than the cautious and compromised editor who seeks to 'balance' a responsibility to readers or viewers with a duty to serve his boss and the advertisers".	They state that "even among journalists who entered the field for the noblest of reasons" there is a tendency to avoid any controversial journalism that might embroil the news company in a battle with a powerful corporation or a government agency. 
noLabel	He characterized the budget problem in two parts: a short- to medium-term problem related to the financial crisis of 2007–2010, which has reduced tax revenues significantly and involved large stimulus spending; and a long-term problem primarily driven by increasing healthcare costs per person.	He argued that the U.S. cannot return to a sustainable long-term fiscal path by either tax increases or cuts to non-healthcare cost categories alone; the U.S. must confront the rising healthcare costs driving expenditures in the Medicare and Medicaid programs . 
noLabel	While this debate focuses on the United Kingdom the same question is also one which applies world-wide, within Europe for example; Denmark, Sweden, Norway, the Netherlands, Belgium and Spain also function as constitutional monarchies, as do Japan and Thailand within Asia.	Hereditary rulers in Africa and the Middle East, such as; Morocco, Lesotho, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, still retain a great deal of real power.
noLabel	During 2011, Rangel became the first member of Congress to declare support for the Occupy Wall Street movement and made several visits to their nearby demonstration site in Zuccotti Park .	However the protesters themselves picketed Rangel's office, objecting to his free trade stance (in particular to agreements he supported with Panama and with South Korea that they said resulted in jobs being exported) .
noLabel	I am .. puzzled as to the hysterical and incorrect reaction whipped up by some media reporters and commentators on this point..	I as the responsible Minister, and we as legislators, do not have the luxury of pursuing a "do nothing" approach while we wait for an opportune moment to move a constitutional amendment. 
noLabel	The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) leads international efforts to defeat hunger and provides a neutral forum where nations meet as equals to negotiate agreements and debate food policy and the regulation of agriculture.	According to Dr. Samuel Jutzi, director of FAO's animal production and health division, lobbying by "powerful" big food corporations has stopped reforms that would improve human health and the environment.
noLabel	An attack in November 2008 was said by Hamas officials said to be in revenge for the recent deaths of its militants and increased Israeli closing of Gaza crossings .	A barrage in December 2008 was described by the group as retaliation for the deaths of three of its fighters in combat with Israeli troops .
noLabel	Selcuk Unal, a spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry, said that an investigation by Turkish authorities determined that there was no act of sabotage on the Irish ship, which had been docked in the Turkish port of Gocek .	These claims have been disputed by Activists who called for an independent investigation into how the MV Saoirse was damaged . 
noLabel	"The Godfather" then decided to divide up the trade he controlled as it would be more efficient and less likely to be brought down in one law enforcement swoop .	In a way, he was privatizing the Mexican drug business while sending it back underground, to be run by bosses who were less well known or not yet known by the DEA.
noLabel	The government arrested 13 prominent Burmese dissidents including Min Ko Naing, Ko Ko Gyi, Min Zeya, Ko Jimmy, Ko Pyone Cho, Arnt Bwe Kyaw and Ko Mya Aye .	The government newspaper New Light of Myanmar reported that these individuals actions caused civil unrest that "was aimed at undermining peace and security of the State and disrupting the ongoing National Convention .
noLabel	On July 3, 2009, Palin announced that she would not run for re-election in the 2010 Alaska gubernatorial election and would resign before the end of July.	In her announcement, Palin stated that both she and the state had been expending an "insane" amount of time and money ($2.5 million) to address "frivolous" ethics complaints filed against her, and that her decision not to seek reelection would make her a lame duck governor .
noLabel	Reports from opposition activists have emerged in recent weeks saying that authorities have directed the police and other government proxy groups to deal harshly with any sign of unrest in Yangon.	"This proves that there is no rule of law [in Burma]," the 88 Generation Students group said in a statement issued today.
noLabel	According to those who follow Beck's reasoning, a cosmopolitan world would consist of a plurality of states, which would use global and regional consensus to gain greater bargaining power against opponents.	States would also utilise the power of civil society actors such as Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and consumers to strengthen their legitimacy and enlist the help of investors to pursue a cosmopolitan agenda. 
noLabel	In the substantive approach, the starting point before the race begins is unfair, since people have had differing experiences before even approaching the competition.	The substantive approach examines the applicants themselves before applying for a position, and judges whether they have equal abilities or talents, and if not, then it suggests that authorities (usually the government) take steps to make applicants more equal before they get to the point where they compete for a position, and fixing the before-the-starting-point issues has sometimes been described as working towards "fair access to qualifications.
noLabel	According to a CBS News/New York Times poll in July 2009, 56% of people were opposed to paying more taxes to reduce the deficit and 53% were also opposed to cutting spending.	According to a Pew Research poll in June 2009, there was no single category of spending that a majority of Americans favored cutting.
noLabel	Similarly, the use of violence does not conform to the principles behind protection rackets, political intimidation and drug trafficking activities employed by those adult groups.	In many cases gang members graduate from youth gangs to highly developed OC groups, with some already in contact with such syndicates and through this we see a greater propensity for imitation.
noLabel	Perspectives also relate to core assumptions regarding the ontological nature of the social world and through the biogenetic roots of the social animal.	Theory is thus informed by historical debates over positivism, and anti-positivism, debates over the primacy of structure and agency, as well as debates relating to other fundamental key concepts in the social sciences, biogenetics and humanities in general (e.g.
noLabel	The Executive Office for Immigration Review, which includes the Immigration Court and the Board of Immigration Appeals, and which reviews decisions made by USCIS, remains under the jurisdiction of the Department of Justice.	The bureau consists of approximately 15,000 federal government employees and contractors who work in 250 local and field offices in the U.S. and all around the world. 
noLabel	In the 2000 Supreme Court case of Stenberg v. Carhart, a Nebraska law banning "partial-birth abortion" was ruled unconstitutional, in part because the language defining "partial-birth abortion" was deemed vague .	In 2006, the Supreme Court in Gonzales v. Carhart found that the 2003 act "departs in material ways" from the Nebraska law and that it pertains only to a specific abortion procedure, intact dilation and extraction .
noLabel	The same decision gave rise to an opposing countermovement of pro-life campaigners (also called anti-abortion campaigners) who generally argue for the rights of fetuses and for prohibition or restriction of abortion.	Subscribing to different moral grounds than the pro-choice movement, pro-lifers hold the view that the human fetus (and in most cases the human embryo) is a person and therefore has a right to life.
noLabel	Former IAEA Director General ElBaradei said in 2009 that the agency had been provided with "no credible evidence" that Iran is developing nuclear weapons, but the New York Times reported in January 2009 that the IAEA is investigating U.S. allegations Project 110 and Project 111 could be names for Iranian efforts for designing a nuclear warhead and making it work with an Iranian missile .	"We are looking to those suppliers of information to help us on the question of authenticity, because that is really a major issue.
noLabel	Although violence between drug cartels had been occurring long before the war began, the government held a generally passive stance regarding cartel violence in the 1990s and early 2000s.	That changed on December 11, 2006, when newly elected President Felipe Calderón sent 6,500 federal troops to the state of Michoacán to end drug violence there (Operation Michoacan).
noLabel	The chairman of the Appropriations Committee has enormous power to bring home special projects (sometimes referred to as "pork barrel spending") for his or her state as well as having the final say on other senators' appropriation requests.	For example, in fiscal year 2005 per capita federal spending in Alaska, the home state of then-Chairman Ted Stevens, was $12,000, double the national average.
noLabel	One of the first acts by Adolf Hitler after achieving total control over the German state was to pass the Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring (Gesetz zur Verhütung erbkranken Nachwuchses) in July 1933.	The law was signed in by Hitler himself, and over 200 eugenic courts were created specifically as a result of the law.
noLabel	According to a 2006 study by the Goldwater Institute, Arizona's public schools spend 50% more per student than Arizona's private schools.	The study also says that while teachers constitute 72% of the employees at private schools, they make up less than half of the staff at public schools.
noLabel	This apparently justifies shifting the remit of law enforcement to concentrate surveillance and monitoring on the activities of the poor and powerless.	However, it has also been asserted that any given set of economic institutions establishes "winners" and "losers", which did also exist before the rise of capitalism and will also continue to exist under a system protective of the criminal, therefore turning its victims into the real "losers".
noLabel	Discrimination on grounds of religion was previously covered in an ad hoc way for Muslims and Sikhs through the race discrimination provisions.	The new regulations were introduced to comply with the EU Framework Directive 2000/78/EC on religion or belief, age, sexuality and disability. 
noLabel	New feminism is a Catholic philosophy which emphasizes a belief in an integralcomplementarity of men and women, rather than the superiority of men over women or women over men .	New feminism, as a form of difference feminism, supports the idea that men and women have different strengths, perspectives, and roles, while advocating for the equal worth and dignity of both sexes.
noLabel	Tower blocks may be inherently more prone to casualties from a fire because people living on higher floors cannot escape fires easily and the fire brigade cannot reach the higher floors quickly.	In buildings with more than a hundred residents ensuring that every single resident acts responsibly to minimize fire risk is impossible, and poorer residents in tower blocks may be tempted to use cheaper flammable fuels rather than electricity and also are more likely to be smokers and carelessness with cigarettes is a major cause of home fires, furthermore poor residents of tower blocks are more likely to have old furniture which was not made to modern fire safety standards.
noLabel	Students also get a week off in November for American Thanksgiving, two weeks off for Christmas Day and New Year's Day, and up to two weeks off in March or April for Spring Break (usually starting on Lazarus Saturday).	In some schools, students also get a week off in February for President's Day and a week off in October for Fall Break (usually the week of Columbus Day). 
noLabel	"The interested and active zeal of religious teachers can be dangerous and troublesome only where there is either but one sect tolerated in the society, or where the whole of a large society is divided into two or three great sects; the teachers of each acting by concert, and under a regular discipline and subordination.	But that zeal must be altogether innocent, where the society is divided into two or three hundred, or, perhaps, into as many thousand small sects, of which no one could be considerable enough to disturb the public tranquillity.
noLabel	Initially funded by the International Olympic Committee, WADA now receives half of its budgetary requirements from them, with the other half coming from various governments throughout the world.	Its governing bodies are also composed in equal parts by representatives from the sporting movement (including athletes) and governments of the world.
noLabel	In other words, the original allocable share release provision created an unintended loophole: it only operated as intended if the NPMs distributed their products nationally.	In that circumstance, the NPMs' total escrow obligations to all states with similar tobacco statutes approximately totaled the payments those NPMs would have made under the MSA.
noLabel	In addition to cutting off supplies to Ukraine, Russian gas flowing through Ukraine&mdash;which included nearly all supplies to Southeastern Europe and some supplies to Central and Western Europe&mdash;was cut off, creating a major crisis in several countries heavily dependent on Russian gas as fuel.	Russia was accused of using the dispute as leverage in its attempt to keep other powers, and particularly the European Union, from interfering in its "near abroad". 
noLabel	It has also been argued that help based on direct donation creates dependency and corruption, and has an adverse effect on local production.	As a result, a shift has taken place towards aid based on activation of local assets and stimulation measures such as microcredit. 
noLabel	In this case, however, lobbying groups wanted the federal watchdog agency to have tougher policing authority to avert expensive problems when oversight was lax; in this case, industry and consumer groups were in harmony, and lobbyists were able to persuade officials that higher FDA budgets were in the public interest .	Religious consortiums, according to one report, have engaged in a $400 million lobbying effort on such issues as the relation between church and state, civil rights for religious minorities, bioethics issues including abortion and capital punishment and end-of-life issues, and family issues .
noLabel	The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), , is an independent foundation created through a collective initiative led by the International Olympic Committee (IOC).	It was set up on November 10, 1999 in Lausanne, Switzerland, as a result of what was called the "Declaration of Lausanne", to promote, coordinate and monitor the fight against drugs in sport.
noLabel	Professional degrees such as law, medicine, pharmacy, and dentistry, are offered as graduate study after earning at least three years of undergraduate schooling or after earning a bachelor's degree depending on the program.	These professional fields do not require a specific undergraduate major, though medicine, pharmacy, and dentistry have set prerequisite courses that must be taken before enrollment. 
noLabel	There is a sense in which America sometimes sees itself as qualitatively different from other countries and therefore cannot be judged by the same standard as other countries; this sense is sometimes termed American exceptionalism.	A writer in Time Magazine in 1971 described American exceptionalism as "an almost mystical sense that America had a mission to spread freedom and democracy everywhere.
noLabel	In the turmoil of the Global Financial Crisis it rapidly grew above the unsustainable maximum level for Greece (defined by a majority of economists to be 120%).	According to "The Economic Adjustment Programme for Greece" published by the EU Commission in October 2011, the debt level is even expected to reach a highly unsustainable level of 198% in 2012, if the proposed debt restructure agreement is not implemented . 
noLabel	Most turbines in the European Union produce electricity at an average of 25% of their rated maximum power due to the variability of wind resources, but Scotland's wind regime provides average capacity factor of 40% or higher on the west and northern coasts.	A small wind farm on Shetland with five Vestas V47 660&nbsp;kW turbines recently achieved a world record of 58% capacity over the course of a year.
noLabel	A representative of the United States Department of State weighed in on the actions of the Pakistan government with respect to the images .	Assistant Secretary of State Philip J. Crowley stated that the United States was critical of a "deliberate attempt to offend Muslims" .
noLabel	The population has been growing continuously since the end of the Black Death, around the year 1400, although the most significant increase has been in the last 50 years, mainly due to medical advancements and increases in agricultural productivity.	Although the rate of population growth has been declining since the 1980s, the United Nations has expressed concern on continued excessive population growth in sub-Saharan Africa .
noLabel	However, the National Energy Board of Canada approved the construction of the Canadian section of the pipeline, including converting a portion of TransCanada's Canadian Mainline gas pipeline to crude oil pipeline, on September 21, 2007 .	On March 17, 2008, the U.S. Department of State issued a Presidential Permit authorizing the construction, maintenance and operation of facilities at the United States and Canada border . 
noLabel	Fox News reported that Montreal shooting case in Canada was carried out by the criminal Kimveer Gill, who is a player of Super Columbine Massacre, whose narrative attaches with strong violence sense.	On the other hand, some people who hold social determinism theory assert technology is neutral, but it is the way that humans manipulate technology which brings about its social impact.
noLabel	Another alternative was to become a foreign "development helper" ("Entwicklungshelfer"), which means that the person would be expected to work in a technical capacity in a recognized "developing country" for a period of not less than two years.	To qualify for this option, the candidate had to meet the requests of the chosen agency which includes formal vocational training or an educational program that grants a recognized qualification in a marketable skill making him a useful asset in a developing host country.
noLabel	Led by the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center, attribution would allow the government to determine the likely source of nuclear material used in the event of a nuclear attack.	This would prevent terrorist groups, and any states willing to help them, from being able to pull off a covert attack without assurance of retaliation . 
noLabel	She is prepared and took her clothes with her," her sister Tin Win Yee, told reporters, "I am worried about her.	This month is the period of Ramadan and she is being treated for her injury sustained in the Depayin incident" .
noLabel	The burning of fossil fuels produces around 21.3 billion tonnes (21.3 gigatonnes) of carbon dioxide per year, but it is estimated that natural processes can only absorb about half of that amount, so there is a net increase of 10.65 billion tonnes of atmospheric carbon dioxide per year (one tonne of atmospheric carbon is equivalent to 44/12 or 3.7 tonnes of carbon) .	Carbon dioxide is one of the greenhouse gases that enhances radiative forcing and contributes to global warming, causing the average surface temperature of the Earth to rise in response, which climate scientists agree will cause major adverse effects.
noLabel	On November 19, 2008, IAEA released a report which said the Syrian complex bore features resembling those of an undeclared nuclear reactor and U.N. inspectors found "significant" traces of uranium at the site.	The report said the findings gleaned from inspectors' visit to the site in June were not enough to conclude a reactor was once there.
noLabel	It’s worth nothing that none of the developers we spoke to, individually and at our convening, foresaw a “silver bullet” that would “solve” the problem of filtering circumvention.	All the tools rely, to a certain degree, on providing more proxies than the authorities can block and continuing to create new proxies as old ones are blocked.
noLabel	Beginning from the 7th and 8th centuries, emperors primarily took women of the Fujiwara clan as their highest wives—the most probable mothers of future monarchs.	This was cloaked as a tradition of marriage between heirs of two kamis, Shinto gods: descendants of Amaterasu with descendants of the family kami of the Fujiwara.
noLabel	Donald Fehr, executive director of the MLB Players Association, also held a news conference in which he expressed his disappointment that the union was not given a chance to read the report beforehand.	He accepted some responsibility for the steroid problems but expressed concern for how the league would treat the players named in the report . 
noLabel	Opinions range from people considering it a legal form of self-defense that reduces terrorism, to people calling it an extrajudicial killing that lack due process, and which leads to more violence .	Methods used have included firing a five-foot-long Hellfire missile from a Predator or Reaper drone (an unmanned, remote-controlled plane), detonating a cell phone bomb, and long-range sniper shooting.
noLabel	In 2007, Professor Larry J. Sabato revived the debate over term limits by arguing in A More Perfect Constitution that the success and popularity of term limits at the state level suggests that they should be adopted at the federal level as well.	He specifically put forth the idea of congressional term limits and suggested a national constitutional convention be used to accomplish the amendment, since the Congress would be unlikely to propose and adopt any amendment that limits its own power.
noLabel	In February 2011, a YouGov poll put support for ending the monarchy after Queen Elizabeth's death at 13%, if Prince Charles becomes King .	However, an ICM poll shortly before the royal wedding suggested that 26% thought Britain would be better off without the monarchy, with only 37% "genuinely interested and excited" by the wedding .
noLabel	JRS/USA is one of 10 geographic regions of Jesuit Refugee Service, an international Catholic organization sponsored by the Society of Jesus.	In coordination with JRS’s International Office in Rome, JRS/USA provides advocacy, financial and human resources for JRS regions throughout the world. 
noLabel	In particular the HAC expressed concern that there did not appear to be any mechanism for “tracking” individual asylum seekers through the system .	This was based on the idea that recently failed immigration and asylum applicants should be fed logically though the casework machine and pushed out of the end to enforcement offices as “ready to go” products. 
noLabel	However, there are several significant social and environmental disadvantages of large-scale hydroelectric power systems: dislocation of people living where the reservoirs are planned, release of significant amounts of carbon dioxide and methane during construction and flooding of the reservoir, and disruption of aquatic ecosystems and birdlife .	There is a strong consensus now that countries should adopt an integrated approach towards managing water resources, which would involve planning hydropower development in co-operation with other water-using sectors .
noLabel	The patterns of conventional behavior in a society or mores are an effective means for preventing electoral fraud and corruption in general.	Good examples are Canada and Sweden, where the cultures have a strong tendency toward positive values, resulting in a low incidence of political corruption .
noLabel	The notwithstanding clause was accepted as part of a deal called the Kitchen Accord, negotiated by the federal Attorney General Jean Chrétien, Ontario's justice minister Roy McMurtry and Saskatchewan's justice minister Roy Romanow.	Pressure from provincial governments (which in Canada have jurisdiction over property) and from the country's left wing, especially the New Democratic Party, also prevented Trudeau from including any rights protecting private property . 
noLabel	This latter type of God, the existence of which Dawkins calls the "God Hypothesis", becomes an important theme in the book .	He maintains that the existence of such a God would have effects in the physical universe and – like any other hypothesis – can be tested and falsified . 
noLabel	Now in the United Kingdom compulsory education begins between four and a half and five and a half; since 1972 it has ended at the age of 16.	But from 2013 compulsory education, be it traditional classroom education or training is planned to be raised to the age of 17, and from 2015 to the age of 18 .
noLabel	The group UK Uncut is one outgrowth of the anger felt by average citizens at austerity, albeit the group focuses not so much on combating the cuts themselves as on demanding that the rich, rather than the poor, pay the shortfalls causing the austerity in the first place — a sort of "tax the rich" movement.	UK Uncut attempts to organise flash mob protests inside the highest-profile buildings of the businesses of the rich people avoiding tax or paying less than they should. 
noLabel	Some point out that a more refined method of assessing Ecological Footprint is to designate sustainable versus non-sustainable categories of consumption .	However, if yield estimates were adjusted for sustainable levels of production, the yield figures would be lower, and hence the overshoot estimated by the Ecological Footprint method even higher.
noLabel	In June 2007, Senator Richard Durbin (D-Illinois) said, "It's time to reinstitute the Fairness Doctrine," an opinion shared by his Democratic colleague, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts .	However, according to Marin Cogan of The New Republic in late 2008: "Senator Durbin's press secretary says that Durbin has 'no plans, no language, no nothing.
noLabel	The Guiding Principles lay out the responsibilities of states before displacement – that is, to prevent displacement – during and after displacement.	They have been endorsed by the UN General Assembly, the African Commission on Human and People's Rights (ACHPR) and by the signatories to the 2006 Pact on Security, Stability and Development in the Great Lakes Region, which include Sudan, DRC and Uganda. 
noLabel	Early in the year, Munger said that Democratic gubernatorial challenger Bev Perdue was a "Stepford Wife" and the Republican nominees were "circus clowns.	" Prior to May 2008, the North Carolina Libertarian Party and Munger gathered 100,000 signatures of voters in order to qualify to appear on North Carolina's ballot.
noLabel	Outside of Japan, beginning with Emperor Shōwa, the emperors are often referred to by their given names, both whilst alive and posthumously.	For example, the previous emperor is usually called Hirohito in English, although he was never referred to as Hirohito in Japan, and was renamed Shōwa Tennō after his death, which is the only name that Japanese speakers currently use when referring to him. 
noLabel	Recently, in order to simplify the application process, various gaming control boards have collaborated on the design of "multi-jurisdictional" application forms.	Persons or vendors who are involved in gaming in multiple jurisdictions may now complete one application form and submit copies to each jurisdiction.
noLabel	During elections, the Iglesia Ni Cristo and the Catholic Charismatic Renewal movement El Shaddai both practise block voting, albeit more enforced in the former than the latter.	Politicians are said to woo the groups' respective leaders into giving their endorsement or "basbás" (literally "blessing/approval"), as the their members' votes could translate into crucial swing votes.
noLabel	While some people said they no longer idolized athletes, many fans said they did not believe that drugs had harmed the integrity of sports.	If you asked the average male if they would take a steroid that would make them idolized by millions as a professional athlete, that would allow them to make millions of dollars but would shorten their lives by 10 years, the vast majority would say, 'Yes,' DeSanto, the fan from Upper Darby, said.
noLabel	Section 15321 of the bill establishes a new tax credit for producers of cellulosic biofuels, that is, biofuels produced from wood, grasses, or the non-edible parts of plants.	The new cellulosic biofuel producer credit is set at $1.01 per gallon and applies only to fuel produced and used as fuel in the United States.
noLabel	The plan claimed to stabilize the debt to GDP ratio at 60%, with up to $6 trillion in debt avoidance over the 2011-2020 period.	Specific plan elements included defense and non-defense spending freezes for 4–5 years, income tax reform, elimination of tax expenditures, and a national sales tax or value-added tax (VAT) .
noLabel	Poverty may also be understood as an aspect of unequal social status and inequitable social relationships, experienced as social exclusion, dependency, and diminished capacity to participate, or to develop meaningful connections with other people in society .	Such social exclusion can be minimized through strengthened connections with the mainstream, such as through the provision of relational care to those who are experiencing poverty. 
noLabel	Pope Benedict also said he would appoint a special commission to examine the Legionaries’ constitution and open an investigation into its lay affiliate Regnum Christi .	Cardinal Christoph Schönborn explained that Ratzinger "made entirely clear efforts not to cover things up but to tackle and investigate them.
noLabel	Referees and scoring judges may be offered money, gifts, or other compensation to guarantee a specific outcome in an athletic or other sports competition.	A well-known example of this manner of bribery in sport would be the 2002 Olympic Winter Games figure skating scandal, where the French judge in the pairs competition voted for the Russian skaters in order to secure an advantage for the French skaters in the ice dancing competition. 
noLabel	Although a statement does not have the power of a resolution, it requires the consent of all its members and has been seen as a shift in position of China .	Official media in Burma called the UN statement "regrettable," and stated that more than half of those arrested during the protests have since been released .
noLabel	For example in 2004, in Wisconsin and elsewhere voters allegedly received flyers that said, “If you already voted in any election this year, you can’t vote in the Presidential Election”, implying that those who had voted in earlier primary elections were ineligible to vote.	Also, “If anybody in your family has ever been found guilty of anything you can’t vote in the Presidential Election.” Finally, “If you violate any of these laws, you can get 10 years in prison and your children will be taken away from you.” Another method, allegedly used in Cook County, Illinois in 2004, is to falsely tell particular people that they are not eligible to vote . 
noLabel	A 2008 report by the Auditor General Sheila Fraser stated that Canada has lost track of as many as 41,000 illegal immigrants .	This number was predicted to increase drastically with the expiration of temporary employer work permits issued in 2007 and 2008, which were not renewed in many cases because of the shortage of work due to the recession .
noLabel	Dr. Graves had himself received an exposure of 400 röntgens in the 1946 Los Alamos accident in which his personal friend, Dr. Louis Slotin, died from radiation exposure.	Dr. Graves appears in the widely available film of the earlier 1952 test "Ivy Mike", which examines the last-minute fallout decisions.
noLabel	As a philosophy, multiculturalism began as part of the pragmatism movement at the end of the nineteenth century in Europe and the United States, then as political and cultural pluralism at the turn of the twentieth .	It was partly in response to a new wave of European imperialism in sub-Saharan Africa and the massive immigration of Southern and Eastern Europeans to the United States and Latin America.
noLabel	The second half of the 19th century saw the emergence in Germany and Austria-Hungary of the so-called Völkisch movement, which as developed by such thinkers as Houston Stewart Chamberlain and Paul de Lagarde, presented a pseudo-scientific, biologically-based racism that saw Jews as a "race" locked into mortal combat with the "Aryan" race for world domination .	Völkisch anti-Semitism, though drawing upon stereotypes from Christian anti-Semitism, differed from the latter in that Jews were considered to be a "race" rather than a religion .
noLabel	It implied however that any statements criticising the censorship itself and tort "reform" would be in the nature of political communication that was protected.	The majority also ruled against the plaintiffs on the second argument (but the minority were strongly of the view) that the law unreasonably interfered with lawyers going about their constitutionally protected vocation. 
noLabel	Even before it was published, Meitner’s and Frisch’s interpretation of the work of Hahn and Strassmann crossed the Atlantic Ocean with Niels Bohr, who was to lecture at Princeton University.	Isidor Isaac Rabi and Willis Lamb, two Columbia University physicists working at Princeton, heard the news and carried it back to Columbia.
noLabel	On the fourth anniversary of Pope John Paul's death, 2 April 2009, Cardinal Dziwisz, told reporters of a presumed miracle that had recently occurred at the former pope's tomb in St. Peter's Basilica .	A nine year-old Polish boy from Gdańsk, who was suffering from kidney cancer and was completely unable to walk, had been visiting the tomb with his parents.
noLabel	According to the historian John W. O'Malley, the draft text Gaudium et Spes which Wojtyła and the Polish delegation sent "had some influence on the version that was sent to the council fathers that summer but was not accepted as the base text" .	According to John F. Crosby, as Pope, John Paul II used the words of Gaudium et Spes later to introduce his own views on the nature of the human person in relation to God: man is "the only creature on earth that God has wanted for its own sake", but man "can fully discover his true self only in a sincere giving of himself" . 
noLabel	Tower blocks in Northern Ireland were never built to the frequency as they were in other cities in Britain and Ireland.	Most tower blocks and flat complexes are found in Belfast and Derry, although many of these have been demolished in recent years and replaced with traditional public housing units.
noLabel	Conservation groups challenged that none of these held precedence over the original order in 2000, but merely "lend a pretext of legality" to the export of illegally logged precious woods, and view all recent logging and exports as criminal offenses .	So far, operators have only been fined, wood has rarely been confiscated, exports have been permitted, and logging has accelerated, especially near the end of the decade . 
noLabel	This view of international trade is controversial, however, and some argue that free trade can actually reduce migration between developing and developed countries.	It can be argued that the developed countries import labor-intensive goods, which causes an increase in employment of unskilled workers in the less developed countries, decreasing the outflow of migrant workers.
noLabel	Through the way many because of their religious beliefs claim that they support human rights in general while denying that LGBT rights are human rights, LGBT rights stand prominent in the very defense of the universal principle of the human rights.	If human rights are understood in a way that makes it possible to exclude the basic rights of certain groups only because of certain religious and cultural prejudices, we find that the principle of universality is taken right out of the human rights, and human rights are transformed to a set of rules only reflecting certain historically values . 
noLabel	These sentiments were intensified in 1950 when most occupation troops were transferred to the Korean War (1950–53) theater, leaving Japan virtually defenseless, and very much aware of the need to enter into a mutual defense relationship with the United States to guarantee the nation's external security.	Encouraged by the American occupation authorities, the Japanese government in July 1950 authorized the establishment of a National Police Reserve, consisting of 75,000 men equipped with light infantry weapons. 
noLabel	A current study tested the relation of adolescent smoking to rules regulating where adults are allowed to smoke in the home.	Results showed that restrictive home smoking policies were associated with lower likelihood of trying smoking for both middle and high school students . 
noLabel	The results of a survey in the UK published in 2010 imply that children raised by their grandparents are more likely to be obese as adults than those raised by their parents .	An American study released in 2011 found the more mothers work the more children are more likely to be overweight or obese .
noLabel	In addition to the radiological accident, the unexpectedly high yield of the device severely damaged many of the permanent buildings on the control site island on the far side of the atoll.	Little of the desired diagnostic data on the shot was collected; many instruments designed to transmit their data back before being destroyed by the blast were instead vaporized instantly, while most of the instruments that were expected to be recovered for data retrieval were destroyed by the blast. 
noLabel	If the public sector company is making money and selling their product for half of the price of the private sector companies, the private sector companies won't be able to simultaneously gouge to that degree and keep their customers: the competition keeps them in line.	Private sector corruption can increase the poverty and helplessness of the population, so it can affect government corruption, in the long-term. 
noLabel	In fact, she was recorded as a contact of a hostile intelligence service after giving an interview to a Soviet journalist based in London who was suspected of being a KGB intelligence officer.	In Joan Ruddock's file, MI5 recorded special branch references to her movements—usually public meetings—and kept press cuttings and the products of mail and telephone intercepts obtained through active investigation of other targets, such as the Communist party and John Cox.
noLabel	Gasper (2009) have argued that the connections between race and IQ, and between IQ and crime, are not well established .	Regarding IQ and race, Gasper argued that the IQ gap between White Americans and African Americans has narrowed significantly over the last 30 years and that, if environmental factors such as educational opportunities are taken into account, differences in IQ may eventually disappear entirely .
noLabel	Despite Big 10 Commissioner Delaney's assertion that if the BCS were to fold they would "go back to the old system"  if a court ordered a solution the Conferences would have no choice in the matter, and would be required - especially if a determination is made that the BCS is an illegal trust or cartel - to do whatever the court says, including submitting to federal oversight of the Bowl's and Bowl teams' finances and administration, and conducting a 4, 8 or 16 team playoff, or whatever other remedy the court ordered in their holding.	The Department of Justice inquiry is far and away the most potentially dangerous legal situation that the BCS has faced to date. 
noLabel	Nuclear weapons expert David Albright author of 'Peddling Peril' has also expressed concerns that Pakistan's stockpile may not be secure despite assurances by both Pakistan and U.S. government.	He stated Pakistan "has had many leaks from its program of classified information and sensitive nuclear equipment, and so you have to worry that it could be acquired in Pakistan,"  . 
noLabel	The WEA is divided into nine regions in England (each matching a Government Office region), a Scottish Association and over 500 local branches.	It creates and delivers about 14,000 courses each year in response to local need across England and Scotland, often in partnership with community groups and local charities.
noLabel	Cyclical or Keynesian unemployment, also known as deficient-demand unemployment, occurs when there is not enough aggregate demand in the economy to provide jobs for everyone who wants to work.	Demand for most goods and services falls, less production is needed and consequently fewer workers are needed, wages are sticky and do not fall to meet the equilibrium level, and mass unemployment results .
noLabel	In Switzerland compulsory militia conscription and mandatory stock of rifles and munitions in every household reflect a relatively positive view of firearms.	Although Swiss firearm restriction laws are on par with many other European countries in terms of requiring a legally valid reason for owning firearms, and although open carry is generally disallowed, militiamen carrying their small arms to and from military bases is not an unfamiliar sight.
noLabel	In 1945 six associates of Amerasia magazine, a journal of Far Eastern affairs, came under suspicion after publishing articles that bore similarity to Office of Strategic Services reports.	The government proposed using the Espionage Act against them but later softened its approach, changing the charges to Embezzlement of Government Property (Now ).
noLabel	Pro-gun groups claim that confusing voters about different types of guns continues to be a strategy of gun-control groups, who in turn claim that certain types of firearms are either particularly unsafe, particularly likely to be used in crime, or particularly unsuited for "sporting purposes," and therefore should be banned.	The types of guns so designated has included: any small, inexpensive handgun ("junk gun" or "Saturday night special"), any handgun weighing more than 50 ounces, any handgun not incorporating either new "smart-gun" or "micro-stamping" abilities, all handguns, semi-automatic "assault weapons" (using either the 1994 definition or a more expansive definition), and .50 caliber rifles . 
noLabel	Investigative reporter Seymour Hersh has reported that the Bush administration has been planning the use of nuclear weapons against Iran When specifically questioned about the potential use of nuclear weapons against Iran, President Bush claimed that "All options were on the table".	According to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, "the president of the United States directly threatened Iran with a preemptive nuclear strike.
noLabel	It should also be noted that Jews who follow halakha based on the Talmudic tradition of law will not have sex during the 11-14 days after a women begins menstruating.	This precludes them from utilizing some forms of "natural birth control" such as the "Calendar-based contraceptive methods" which are relatively unobjectionable to other religious groups. 
noLabel	While much research has been done to correlate race, income level and crime frequency, typically of less serious criminal behavior such as theft or larceny, research has shown there to be no significant correlation between race, income level and crime seriousness.	Thus, conflict theory encounters difficulties in attempting to account for the high levels of violent crime such as murder, homicide and rape, in minority populations .
noLabel	Quintana defined ethnic perspective taking as a cognitive–developmental ability that could be reached as an individual proceeds through developmental life stages .	This development contains five stages of ethnic perspective-taking ability, including (1) physicalistic and observable perspective, (2) literal perspective, (3) non-literal and social perspective, (4) group perspective and (5) multicultural perspective of ethnicity.
noLabel	If the government borrows (runs a deficit) to deal with a severe recession (or depression), to help self-defense, or spends on public investment (in infrastructure, education, basic research, or public health), the vast majority of economists would agree that the deficit is bearable, beneficial, and even necessary.	If, on the other hand, the deficit finances wasteful expenditure or current consumption, most would recommend tax cuts to stimulate private investment, transfer cuts, and/or cuts in government purchases to balance the budget.
noLabel	During TCU's second undefeated regular season run in a row (their only loss being the 2010 Fiesta Bowl against Boise State), and while Boise State was still undefeated prior to losing to Nevada, E. Gordon Gee, the president of Ohio State University (a member of the Big Ten, a BCS conference) and formerly president of two other BCS Universities, made public comments to the Associated Press stating that schools from non-BCS schools should not be allowed to compete for the BCS championship.	"I do know, having been both a Southeastern Conference president and a Big Ten president, that it's like murderer's row every week for these schools.
noLabel	Many of the world's rainforests are associated with the location of the monsoon trough, also known as the intertropical convergence zone .	Tropical rainforests are rainforests in the tropics, found in the equatorial zone (between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn).
noLabel	Political correctness (adjectivally, politically correct; both forms commonly abbreviated to PC) is a term which denotes language, ideas, policies, and behavior seen as seeking to minimize social and institutional offense in occupational, gender, racial, cultural, sexual orientation, certain other religions, beliefs or ideologies, disability, and age-related contexts, and, as purported by the term, doing so to an excessive extent.	In current usage, the term is primarily pejorative, while the term politically incorrect has been used as an implicitly positive self-description.
noLabel	Philosophy professor Irfan Khawaja asserts that it is a "false equation" to equate anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism, writing "The point is not that the charge of 'anti-Semitism' should never be made: some people deserve it….	But the equation of anti-Semitism with anti-Zionism is a farce that has gone on long enough, and it’s time that those who saw through the farce said so…" . 
noLabel	Learning disability theory is founded in a medical model, in that disability is perceived as an individual deficit that is biological in origin .	Researchers working within a social model of disability assert that there are social or structural causes of disability and/or the assignation of the label of disability, and even that disability is entirely socially constructed .
noLabel	According to Hardin, the "fundamental mode of Canadian life" has always been, "the un-American mechanism of redistribution as opposed to the mystic American mechanism of market rule."	Most Canadians, in other words, whether on the right or left in politics, expect their governments to be actively involved in the economic and social life of the nation .
noLabel	Though not a scientist himself, d'Holbach was scientifically literate and he tried to develop his philosophy in accordance with the known facts of nature and the scientific knowledge of the day, citing, for example, the experiments of John Needham as proof that life could develop autonomously without the intervention of a deity.	It makes a critical distinction between mythology as a more or less benign way of bringing law ordered thought on society, nature and their powers to the masses and theology.
noLabel	The survey found that the area with the highest percentage of people 25 years and over with a bachelor's degree was the District of Columbia (45.9 percent), followed by the states of Massachusetts (37 percent), Maryland (35.1 percent), Colorado (34.3 percent), and Connecticut (33.7 percent).	The state with the lowest percentage of people 25 years and over with a bachelor's degree was West Virginia (16.5 percent), next lowest were Arkansas (18.2), Mississippi (18.8 percent), Kentucky (20 percent), and Louisiana (20.3 percent) .
noLabel	She founded the Order of Poor Ladies, a contemplative monastic religious order for women in the Franciscan tradition, and wrote their Rule of Life—the first monastic rule known to have been written by a woman.	Following her death, the order she founded was renamed in her honor as the Order of Saint Clare, commonly referred to today as the Poor Clares . 
noLabel	All known radioactive processes before fission changed mass of the atomic nucleus by no more than two protons and two neutrons (Alpha decay).	Albert Einstein's principle of mass–energy equivalence described the amount of energy released in such processes, but this could not be harnessed on a large scale. 
noLabel	The Order assigned the responsibility for enforcing parts of the non-discrimination in contracts with private industry to the Department of Labor.	Detailed regulations for compliance with the Order were not issued until 1969, when the Nixon administration made affirmative action part of its civil rights strategy . 
noLabel	Sex selection is legal in most of the world, and it is practiced particularly in Western countries, but is more limited in Eastern countries, such as India or China.	There is fertility tourism from the United Kingdom to the United States for sex selection, because preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD, a potential expansion of IVF), which can be used for sex selection, is prohibited in the UK, except when it is used to screen for genetic diseases, while the laws in the US are more relaxed in this subject .
noLabel	The way in which they were subsequently dealt with went from one extreme to the other and were soon accepted as readily as other German passports.	The other side of the coin was the concern at the potential movement of labour from other countries in Eastern Europe and visa controls were applied in 1992 .
noLabel	The use of condoms to prevent STD transmission is not specifically addressed by Catholic doctrine, and is currently a topic of debate among theologians and high-ranking Catholic authorities.	A few, such as Belgian Cardinal Godfried Danneels, believe the Catholic Church should actively support condoms used to prevent disease, especially serious diseases such as AIDS .
noLabel	Individualism makes the individual its focus and so starts "with the fundamental premise that the human individual is of primary importance in the struggle for liberation."	Classical liberalism (including libertarianism), existentialism and anarchism (especially individualist anarchism) are examples of movements that take the human individual as a central unit of analysis . 
noLabel	Another example is the United Egg Producers' "Animal Care Certified" logo on egg cartons which misled consumers by conveying a higher level of animal care than was actually the case.	Both the Better Business Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission found the logo to be deceptive and the original logo can no longer be used.
noLabel	With the development of new and improved technology with physical education, and especially adapted physical education, it is important for the APE teacher to know and understand different ways to implement technology for increased success for their students.	APE teachers can develop an updated website regarding a fitness workout plan, in which students can download and follow at home with a sibling or parent.
noLabel	Rangel is known both for his genial manner, with an ability to win over fellow legislators, and for his blunt speaking; he has long been outspoken about his views, and has been arrested several times as part of political demonstrations.	He was an adamant opponent of the George W. Bush administration and the Iraq War, and he put forth proposals to reinstate the draft during the 2000s. 
noLabel	" Obama has a half-sister with whom he was raised, Maya Soetoro-Ng, the daughter of his mother and her Indonesian second husband and seven half-siblings from his Kenyan father's family&nbsp;– six of them living .	Obama's mother was survived by her Kansas-born mother, Madelyn Dunham, until her death on November 2, 2008, two days before his election to the Presidency.
noLabel	A minority of scientists claim that as many as 40% of HIV infections in African adults may be caused by unsafe medical practices rather than by sexual activity .	The World Health Organization states that about 2.5% of AIDS infections in sub-Saharan Africa are caused by unsafe medical injection practices and the "overwhelming majority" by unprotected sex .
noLabel	In 1894 Dewey joined the newly founded University of Chicago (1894–1904) where he developed his belief in an empirically based theory of knowledge, becoming associated with the newly emerging Pragmatic philosophy.	His time at the University of Chicago resulted in four essays collectively entitled Thought and its Subject-Matter, which was published with collected works from his colleagues at Chicago under the collective title Studies in Logical Theory (1903).
noLabel	Given the wide diversity of opinion on Christian theological matters in the newly independent American States, the Constitutional Convention believed a government sanctioned (established) religion would disrupt rather than bind the newly formed union together.	George Washington wrote a letter in 1790 to the country's first Jewish congregation, the Touro Synagogue in Newport, Rhode Island to state:
noLabel	IS at Heathrow Airport led the way in the UK in setting up sensitive and sophisticated reception arrangements for children and developed facilities and training to identify children at risk – work which has continued and flourished.	A programme of specialist training for immigration officers in dealing with children at risk resulted in 495 immigration officers being trained in interviewing children by 2006 .
noLabel	The UK hosted the very first F1 Grand Prix in 1950 at Silverstone, the current location of the British Grand Prix held each year in July.	The country also hosts legs of the World Rally Championship and has its own touring car racing championship, the British Touring Car Championship (BTCC), and the British Formula Three Championship. 
noLabel	After John von Neumann and others developed the mathematical field of game theory in the 1940s, new mathematical tools were available to analyze voting systems and strategic voting.	One such tool was the idea of a strong Nash equilibrium, based on the work of John Nash in the 1950s.
noLabel	Intensive use of ecosystems often produces the greatest short-term advantage, but excessive and unsustainable use can lead to losses in the long term.	A country could cut its forests and deplete its fisheries, and this would show only as a positive gain to GDP, despite the loss of capital assets.
noLabel	The Sejil-2 surface-to-surface medium-range ballistic missile (MRBM) was first tested eight months prior to the actual test launch, which took place in the central Iranian province of Semnan .	Improvements include better navigation system, better targeting system, more payload, longer range, faster lift-off, longer storage time, quicker launch, and lower detection possibility . 
noLabel	A three-stage H-bomb uses a fission bomb primary to compress a thermonuclear secondary, as in most H-bombs, and then uses energy from the resulting explosion to compress a much larger additional thermonuclear stage.	There is evidence that the Tsar Bomba had a number of third stages rather than a single very large one . 
noLabel	The Palestinian Authority rule of the Gaza Strip and West Bank under the leadership of Arafat suffered from serious mismanagement and corruption scandals.	For example, exorbitant bribes were demanded for allowing goods to pass in and out of the Gaza Strip, while heads of the Preventive Security Service apparatus profited from their involvement in the gravel import and cement and construction industries, such as the Great Arab Company for Investment and Development, the al-Motawaset Company, and the al-Sheik Zayid construction project . 
noLabel	That same year, the Brazilian Parliament approved an amnesty, opening a six-month window for all foreigners to seek legalization irrespective of their previous standing before the law.	Brazil had last legalized all immigrants in 1998; bilateral deals, one of which promoted the legalization of all reciprocal immigrants with Bolivia to date, signed in 2005, are also common . 
noLabel	Some sociologists of science argue that peer review makes the ability to publish susceptible to control by elites and to personal jealousy.	Reviewers tend to be especially critical of conclusions that contradict their own views, and lenient towards those that accord with them.
noLabel	the Department of Defense), subordinated the military branches to the new cabinet level position of the Secretary of Defense, established the National Security Council and the Central Intelligence Agency .	The Act did not define national security which was conceivably advantageous as its ambiguity made it a powerful phrase to invoke whenever issues threatened by other interests of the state, such as domestic concerns, came up for discussion and decision . 
noLabel	Prior to the acceptance and implementation of the United States Constitution, the original 13 colonies followed the stipulations and agreements set forth in the Articles of Confederation, created by the Second Continental Congress and ratified in 1781.	The national government that operated under the Articles of Confederation was too weak however to adequately regulate the various conflicts that arose between the states .
noLabel	Secondary education is characterized by transition from primary education for minors to tertiary, "post-secondary", or "higher" education (e.g., university, vocational school) for adults.	Depending on the system, schools for this period or a part of it may be called secondary schools, high schools, gymnasia, lyceums, middle schools, colleges, vocational schools and preparatory schools, and the exact meaning of any of these varies between the systems.
noLabel	In a new development, the new UK Gambling Act has permitted the sale of charity lottery tickets from machines for the first time.	In a new venture to take advantage of this change, Gamestec Plc and Tabboxx (UK) Ltd are rolling out Tabboxx lottery vending machines across UK pubs.
noLabel	Most competitive schools also require two or three SAT Subject Tests (formerly known as SAT IIs), which are shorter exams that focus strictly on a particular subject matter.	However, all these tests serve little to no purpose for students who do not move on to post-secondary education, so they can usually be skipped without affecting one's ability to graduate.
noLabel	It was agreed that the main passenger airport for London would be Heathrow, which opened on 1 May 1946 and came under the command of the Croydon Inspector.	The vision of the Croydon Inspector for controlling air passengers took some time to be realised as the design of Heathrow in its early years took little account of the requirements of either Immigration or HM Customs and Excise. 
noLabel	Secondary injury events include damage to the blood–brain barrier, release of factors that cause inflammation, free radical overload, excessive release of the neurotransmitter glutamate (excitotoxicity), influx of calcium and sodium ions into neurons, and dysfunction of mitochondria .	Injured axons in the brain's white matter may separate from their cell bodies as a result of secondary injury, potentially killing those neurons.
noLabel	In India showing somebody the palm of your hand is regarded as a gesture of blessing the person, mostly done by elders.	Most Hindu and Buddhist deities are depicted as showing the palm of their right hand, while in some east European countries it is considered a rude gesture.
noLabel	The Electronic Frontier Foundation came to the defense of one of the parties silenced by the restraining order to defend the First Amendment right of internet journalists to post links to relevant documents on wikis, blogs, and other web pages .	While Eli Lilly maintains that the documents were obtained unlawfully and should not be part of the public domain, critics cite the leaked Pentagon Papers as precedent for the right of individuals to report on the existence and contents of such documents, and in this particular case, maintain that court sealing of documents should never be allowed to protect individuals or corporations from criminal liability .
noLabel	ARTICLE 19 monitors threats to free expression around the globe, lobbies governments to adopt laws that conform to international standards on freedom of expression; and drafts legal standards which strengthen media, public broadcasting, free expression and access to government-held information.	It also produces legal analysis and critiques of national laws, including media laws; provides legal counsel on behalf of individuals or groups whose rights have been violated; and provides capacity-building support to non-governmental organisations, judges and lawyers, journalists, media owners, media lawyers, public officials and parliamentarians. 
noLabel	However, Alister McGrath, a Professor of Historical Theology at Oxford University, was interviewed for the program, but was not included in the documentary .	McGrath claimed to have made Dawkins "appear uncomfortable" with his explanations of religious belief and the implication, made by McGrath, was that Dawkins's program showed journalistic dishonesty.
noLabel	Until recently the leaders of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) have publicly condemned artificial birth control .	The only official public statement it has ever made on the subject discouraged contraception by saying, "it is contrary to the teachings of the Church artificially to curtail or prevent the birth of children.
noLabel	In the last months of World War II some five million German civilians from the German provinces of East Prussia, Pomerania and Silesia fled the onslaught of the Red Army and became refugees in Mecklenburg, Brandenburg and Saxony.	After the capitulation of the Wehrmacht in May 1945 the Allies occupied Germany in the borders as they were on 31 December 1937, as agreed to in the Berlin declaration of 5 June 1945.
noLabel	Copyright is a legal concept, enacted by most governments, giving the creator of an original work exclusive rights to it, usually for a limited time.	Generally, it is "the right to copy", but also gives the copyright holder the right to be credited for the work, to determine who may adapt the work to other forms, who may perform the work, who may financially benefit from it, and other related rights.
noLabel	The development of muscle-building properties of testosterone was pursued in the 1940s, in the Soviet Union and in Eastern Bloc countries such as East Germany, where steroid programs were used to enhance the performance of Olympic and other amateur weight lifters.	In response to the success of Russian weightlifters, the U.S. Olympic Team physician Dr. John Ziegler worked with synthetic chemists to develop an anabolic steroid with reduced androgenic effects .
noLabel	Overall, the software developments that have come out of the open source movement have not been unique to the computer science field, but they have been successful in developing alternatives to propriety software.	Members of the open source community improve upon code and write programs that can rival much of the propriety software that is already available . 
noLabel	Nuclear power is considered a base load power source, in that its output is nearly constant and other types of plants are adjusted with changes in demand.	This is done because output changes can only be made in small increments, and because of small fuel costs - there is little marginal cost between running at a low power and a high power, therefore it is cheapest for the system to run the nuclear plants at high power. 
noLabel	This led to a campaign known as Homes fit for heroes and in 1919 the Government first required councils to provide housing, helping them to do so through the provision of subsidies, under the Housing Act 1919.	The government was no doubt encouraged by the increasing influence of the Labour Party and the widespread strikes and mutinies which characterized Britain in 1919. 
noLabel	The dissidents of the Charter 77 denounced it in 1977–78 as a "genocide", but the practice continued through the Velvet Revolution of 1989 .	A 2005 report by the Czech government's independent ombudsman, Otakar Motejl, identified dozens of cases of coercive sterilization between 1979 and 2001, and called for criminal investigations and possible prosecution against several health care workers and administrators .
noLabel	In 2007 the D.C. board of education was stripped of its decision-making powers and turned into an advisory body, and the new office of chancellor was created—so that changes in the public school system could be made without waiting for the approval of an often argumentative board .	Newly-elected D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty quickly offered Rhee the job of chancellor; she accepted after being promised mayoral backing for whatever changes she wanted to make .
noLabel	Congress also has implied powers deriving from the Constitution's Necessary and Proper Clause which permit Congress to "make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into execution the foregoing powers, and all other powers vested by this Constitution in the government of the United States, or in any department or officer thereof.	" Broad interpretations of this clause and of the Commerce Clause, the enumerated power to regulate commerce, in rulings such as McCulloch v Maryland, have effectively widened the scope of Congress's legislative authority far beyond that prescribed in Section 8 .
noLabel	One account suggested that the lobbying arms of these law firms were not held as separate subsidiaries, but that the law practices involved in government lobbying were integrated into the overall framework of the law firm .	A benefit to an integrated arrangement was that the law firm and the lobbying department could "share and refer clients back and forth" .
noLabel	Lack of benchmarking, that is continual detailed evaluation of procedures and comparison to others who do similar things, in the same government or others, in particular comparison to those who do the best work.	The Peruvian organization Ciudadanos al Dia has started to measure and compare transparency, costs, and efficiency in different government departments in Peru.
noLabel	The difficulty, of course, is that plaintiffs do not present themselves to the Court admitting that their intent is to censor, intimidate or silence their critics.	Hence, the difficulty in drafting SLAPP legislation, and in applying it, is to craft an approach which affords an early termination to invalid abusive suits, without denying a legitimate day in court to valid good faith claims. 
noLabel	John McCain, a senator from Arizona, defeated George W. Bush in the New Hampshire primary in 2000, surging his poll numbers.	(McCain went on to lose the South Carolina primary (see below), which effectively ended his campaign in 2000 despite late wins in Michigan and his home state of Arizona.)
noLabel	The U.S. Congress followed on July 17, 1862, with an act authorizing a militia draft within a state when it could not meet its quota with volunteers.	This state-administered system failed in practice and on March 3, 1863, Congress passed the first genuine national conscription law, setting up under the Union army an elaborate machinery for enrolling and drafting men between twenty and forty-five years of age. 
noLabel	On 24 September eyewitnesses reported between 30,000 and 100,000 people demonstrating in Yangon, making the event the largest Burmese anti-government protest in twenty years .	The BBC reported that two locally well-known actors, comedian Zargana and film star Kyaw Thu, went to Yangon's golden Shwedagon Pagoda early on Monday to offer food and water to the monks before they started their march.
noLabel	Burmese resentment was strong and was vented in violent riots that paralysed Yangon on occasion all the way until the 1930s .	Some of the discontent was caused by a disrespect for Burmese culture and traditions such as the British refusal to remove shoes when they entered pagodas.
noLabel	Also, by law, three of the nine positions on the Supreme Court of Canada must be held by judges from Quebec.	This representation makes sure that at least three judges have sufficient experience with the civil law system to treat cases involving Quebec laws.
noLabel	Israel, along with many Western and some Arab countries, wanted international aid groups to control aid from donations around the world, so that Hamas would not receive credit for the rebuilding.	To speed up reconstruction, Hamas agreed that it would not insist on collecting reconstruction money itself and would allow donated money to flow through different avenues based on the various alliances, although Hamas ultimately expected to administer the aid.
noLabel	This new economic incentive, in addition to a net export and an influx in gold, reduced interest rates, increased investments, and sparked job growth .	Christine Romber (1992) and various other economic historians began to criticize the New Deal as the cause for unnecessary and unjustified reliance on government programs . 
noLabel	The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act or JOBS Act, is a pending law intended to encourage funding of United States small businesses by easing various securities regulations.	It passed with bipartisan support, and as of late March, 2012, is awaiting signature by the President of the United States.
noLabel	Many refugees in Africa cross into neighboring countries to find haven; often, African countries are simultaneously countries of origin for refugees and countries of asylum for other refugees.	The Democratic Republic of Congo, for instance, was the country of origin for 462,203 refugees at the end of 2004, but a country of asylum for 199,323 other refugees. 
noLabel	Ministers (usually around thirty) chosen by the Prime Minister and appointed by the Governor General to lead various ministries and agencies, generally with regional representation.	Traditionally most, if not all, cabinet ministers will be members of the leader's own party in the House of Commons (see Cabinet of Canada); however this is not legally or constitutionally mandated, and occasionally the Prime Minister will appoint a cabinet minister from another party. 
noLabel	For a Shotgun Certificate the applicant need only demonstrate that they can securely store the firearms (usually a gun safe bolted to a solid wall) and have no serious criminal convictions.	Once a SGC is granted the person is free to purchase single shot, multi-barrelled and repeating shotguns of lever action, pump action or semi-automatic with non detatchable magazine that hold no more than 2 rounds of ammunition, plus one in the breech.
noLabel	This theory assumes that migration from less developed countries into more developed countries is a result of a pull created by a need for labor in the developed countries in their secondary market.	Migrant workers are needed to fill the lowest rung of the labor market because the native laborers do not want to do these jobs as they present a lack of mobility.
noLabel	In January 2010, eight human rights organizations in Israel reissued a call to the government to establish an independent and impartial investigation .	The call was issued by Adalah, the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, B'Tselem, Gisha, Hamoked, Physicians for Human Rights – Israel, the Public Committee Against Torture in Israel, Yesh Din and Rabbis for Human Rights . 
noLabel	The system of monarchy since antiquity has contrasted with forms of democracy, where executive power is wielded by assemblies of free citizens.	In antiquity, monarchies were abolished in favour of such assemblies in Ancient Rome (Roman Republic, 509 BC), Ancient Athens (Athenian democracy, 500 BC). 
noLabel	Much of the true costs of transporting goods around the world and consuming fossil fuel must be paid in the future dealing with the health and environmental effects of pollution.	It is also likely that economic disruptions will be caused by future shortages of fossil fuel energy and spikes in fuel prices since it is a finite resource that is being depleted.
noLabel	In comparison, migration to and from Central and Eastern Europe has increased since 2004 with the accession to the European Union of eight Central and Eastern European states, since there is free movement of labour within the EU.	The UK government is currently phasing in a new points-based immigration system for people from outside of the European Economic Area.
noLabel	There have been questions raised over a possible connection between Fast and Furious and the death of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent Jaime Zapata on February 15, 2011 .	The gun used to kill Zapata was purchased by Otilio Osorio in the Dallas/Fort Worth Metroplex, Texas (outside the area of responsibility for the ATF Phoenix field division which conducted Fast and Furious), and then smuggled into Mexico.
noLabel	Although the inherent activities comprising, say, a theft, may be identical, theft by the poor will be given greater emphasis than theft by the rich.	This will have two consequences: direct which will increase the pressure for survival in an unequal society, and indirect in that it will increase a sense of alienation among the poor.
noLabel	In January 2012, a "Smart for the Start" regulatory approach was introduced, designed to expedite the siting process while incorporating strong environmental protections.	Specifically, the Department of Interior approved “wind energy areas” off the coast where projects can move through the regulatory approval process more quickly .
noLabel	This type of plant works well on a grid with many nuclear or renewable energy plants because the fuel is very cheap or essentially free, so it costs very little to keep them running at high power during the night when demand is low.	Both pump-storage plants and natural flow hydro plants can help allow for intermittency of other plants by running at higher capacity for short times, but assistance is limited by the total capacity of the hydroelectric plant.
noLabel	The ARM now supports a non-binding plebiscite to decide the model, followed by a binding referendum to amend the Constitution, reflecting the model chosen .	Opponents of holding non-binding plebiscites include monarchist David Flint, who described this process as "inviting a vote of no confidence in one of the most successful constitutions in the world," and minimalist republican Greg Craven, who states "a multi-option plebiscite inevitably will produce a direct election model, precisely for the reason that such a process favours models with shallow surface appeal and multiple flaws.
noLabel	The last Anglo-Saxon monarch (Harold II) was defeated and killed in the Norman invasion of 1066 and the English monarchy passed to the Norman conquerors.	In the thirteenth century, the principality of Wales was absorbed by England, and Magna Carta began the process of reducing the political powers of the monarch. 
noLabel	In October 2006, the DCLG White Paper Strong and Prosperous Communities proposed that in future the requirement for a referendum to approve the establishment of an elected mayor for a council area be dropped in favour of a simple resolution of the council following community consultation.	It also proposed the direct election of council cabinets where requested, and that the mayor-and-council manager system in Stoke-on-Trent be reformed into a conventional mayor-and-cabinet system, it having been the only English council to adopt that system . 
noLabel	In the United States, the assassination of President Garfield in 1881 prompted the replacement of the American Spoils System with a meritocracy.	In 1883, The Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act was passed, stipulating government jobs should be awarded on the basis of merit through competitive exams, rather than ties to politicians or political affiliation . 
noLabel	The idea of the Mandate of Heaven was developed by the Zhou as an ideology of legitimation, and it continues to serve this function.	By emphasizing the unity of the Chinese nation into pre-historic times, the concept legitimates the rule of a single centralised state and implicitly relegates any other potential power holders (both historical and contemporary) to positions of subordination or illegitimacy.
noLabel	Fuel consumption calculations made en route indicated that Bockscar had insufficient fuel to reach Iwo Jima and would be forced to divert to Okinawa.	After initially deciding that if Nagasaki were obscured on their arrival the crew would carry the bomb to Okinawa and dispose of it in the ocean if necessary, the weaponeer, Navy Commander Frederick Ashworth, decided that a radar approach would be used if the target was obscured . 
noLabel	Moyo is a regular contributor to financial journals such as The Economist and Financial Times and has appeared as a guest on networks such as CNN, CNBC, BBC and Fox Business .	She is a Patron of Absolute Return for Kids (ARK), a hedge fund supported children’s charity, and serves on the Board of directors of Room to Read, a non-profit that provides educational opportunities to local communities in the developing world .
noLabel	From 1993 to 2004, the conservative vote in Canada was split between the Progressive Conservatives and the Reform (later the Alliance) Party.	This allowed the Liberal Party to win almost all the seats in Ontario during this period as well as win three successive majority governments. 
noLabel	At the same time it was announced that 69.8% of private holders of Greek government bonds regulated by foreign law (equal to ), also had agreed to the debt restructuring deal.	Thus, the total amount of debt to be restructured was now guaranteed to be minimum 95.7% (equal to ), while the remaining 4.3% of the private holders (equal to ) were offered a prolonged deadline at March 23 to voluntarily join the debt swap . 
noLabel	In 1970, the Boston Women's Health Collective published Women and their Bodies (which became far better known a year later under its subsequent title, Our Bodies, Ourselves).	Not an erotic treatise or sex manual, the book nevertheless included frank descriptions of sexuality, and contained illustrations that could have caused legal problems just a few years earlier. 
noLabel	Male Druze and Circassian Israeli citizens are liable, by agreement with their community leaders (Female Druze and Circassian are exempt from service).	Members of the exempted groups can still volunteer, but very few do, except for the Bedouin where a relatively large number have tended to volunteer (usually for financial reasons).
noLabel	First, if a food web in an ecosystem has a lot of weak interactions between different species, then it should have more stable populations and the community as a whole should be more stable .	If upper levels of the web are more diverse, then there will be less biomass in the lower levels and if lower levels are more diverse they will better be able to resist consumption and be more stable in the face of consumption.
noLabel	The only drug testing in baseball before this season was for controlled substances like cocaine -- and only in circumstances of probable cause, like when a player is arrested for drug possession.	But in recent years, there has been growing suspicion of steroid use as players have become bigger and more powerfully built and home run totals have risen.
noLabel	In 1988, the Danish Social Democrats "each sex has the right to a representation of at least 40 per cent of the Social Democratic candidates for local and regional elections.	If there is not a sufficient number of candidates from each sex, this right will not fully come into effect"; however, this party law was abolished in 1996 .
noLabel	Yields can be calculated in a number of ways, including calculations based on blast size, blast brightness, seismographic data, and the strength of the shock wave.	Enrico Fermi famously made a (very) rough calculation of the yield of the Trinity test by dropping small pieces of paper in the air and measuring at how far they were moved by the shock wave of the explosion.
noLabel	The top inch of soil in the area near the house should be either removed or dug up and mixed with the deeper layers of soil.	This reduces the dose rate as the gamma photons have to pass through the soil before they can irradiate a person. 
noLabel	Many Catholics objected to the election system because it effectively denied the authority of the Pope in Rome over the French Church.	Eventually, in November 1790, the National Assembly began to require an oath of loyalty to the Civil Constitution from all the members of the clergy .
noLabel	In addition to a safety net, Group Training Organizations (GTO) have other benefits such as additional support for both the Host employer and the trainee/apprentice through an industry consultant who visits regularly to make sure that the trainee/apprentice are fulfilling their work and training obligations with their Host employer.	There is the additional benefit of the trainee/apprentice being employed by the GTO reducing the Payroll/Superannuation and other legislative requirements on the Host employer who pays as invoiced per agreement.
noLabel	In Germany, the University of Greifswald has recently established an international program in Landscape Ecology & Nature Conservation with a strong focus on environmental ethics.	In 2009, the University of Munich and Deutsches Museum founded the Rachel Carson Center for Environment and Society, an international, interdisciplinary center for research and education in the environmental humanities.
noLabel	Bone marrow death is caused by a dose of radiation between 2 and 10 gray and is characterized by the part of the bone marrow that makes the blood being broken down.	Therefore production of red and white blood cells and platelets is stopped by division of precursor stem cells ceasing (4.5 gray kills 95% of stem cells).
noLabel	While the term Sixth Form is still widely used to describe years 12 and 13 of the schooling system, the terms Upper Sixth and Lower Sixth, as well as First Year through Fifth Year, have fallen out of common usage.	That said it is not unusual to find schools, especially independent schools, that still refer to years 7 to 13 in this way. 
noLabel	Before running for statewide office in 2002, however, she began attending the non-denominational Wasilla Bible Church, a church which was described by The Times as "more reserved" .	In June 2008 she made a return visit to her former church, where she gave a speech to ministry students linking religion to war and energy .
noLabel	As the election officials had expected, once the two lists were completed on January 5, the two numbers were indeed very close to one another.	Also on January 5, 2005, the Seattle Post-Intelligencer published an article investigating votes in King County apparently cast by dead people .
noLabel	Some research suggests that culture plays a larger role than economic conditions in gender preference and sex-selective abortion, because such deviations in sex ratios do not exist in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean .	Other demographers, however, argue that perceived gender imbalances may arise from the underreporting of female births, rather than sex-selective abortion or infanticide . 
noLabel	A decrease can occur if the dam is used in place of traditional power generation, since electricity produced from hydroelectric generation does not give rise to any flue gas emissions from fossil fuel combustion (including sulfur dioxide, nitric oxide and carbon monoxide from coal).	The Tucurui dam in Brazil (closed in 1984) had only 0.4 times the impact on global warming than would generating the same power from fossil fuels .
noLabel	As a general rule, one-third of crime guns recovered in most cities are purchased out of state, and another third are purchased in the same state but outside the immediate vicinity.	An analysis of data for traced guns recovered in California and Texas from 2003 to 2006 showed that 49.5% were recovered within 25 miles of the initial point of sale.
noLabel	The group said that hundreds of Palestinian civilians were killed using high-precision weapons, while others were shot at close range .	The IDF responded that the report ignores the efforts the military made to minimize harm to innocent civilians that included millions of flyers, personal phone calls to homes of Palestinians and radio broadcasts to warn civilians of the impending operation . 
noLabel	The Mexican Army has severely curtailed the ability of the Mexican drug cartels to move cocaine inside the U.S. and Canada, prompting an upsurge in gang violence in Vancouver, where the cocaine price has increased from $23,300 to almost $39,000 per kilo as both the U.S. and Canadian drug markets are experiencing prolonged shortages of cocaine .	As evidence of this pressure, the U.S. government says the amount of cocaine seized on U.S. soil dropped by 41 percent between early 2007 and mid-2008 .
noLabel	As he was then a Cabinet Minister, Michael Portillo's constituency of Enfield Southgate was believed to be a safe seat but opinion polls showed the Labour candidate Stephen Twigg steadily gaining support, which may have prompted undecided voters or supporters of other parties to support Twigg in order to remove Portillo.	Another example is the boomerang effect where the likely supporters of the candidate shown to be winning feel that chances are slim and that their vote is not required, thus allowing another candidate to win. 
noLabel	In March 2010, The Jerusalem Post reported that a pollster was unhappy with the way his poll results regarding Israeli views regarding President Obama were presented in the English edition of Haaretz, which he felt was "misleading", due to the fact that the Hebrew word "inyani" had been interpreted as "fair" instead of "businesslike" .	Also in 2010, several columnists at The Jerusalem Post, including deputy managing editor Caroline Glick, criticized Haaretz for its role in the Anat Kamm affair .
noLabel	Use of Free and Open-Source Software (FOSS) in the U.S. Department of Defense is a 2003 report by The MITRE Corporation that documented widespread use of and reliance on free software (termed "FOSS") within the United States Department of Defense (DoD).	The report helped end a debate about whether FOSS should be banned from U.S. DoD systems, and helped redirect the discussion towards the current official U.S. DoD policy of treating FOSS and proprietary software as equals.
noLabel	States vie for earlier primaries to claim greater influence in the nomination process, as the early primaries can act as a signal to the nation, showing which candidates are popular and giving those who perform well early on the advantage of the bandwagon effect.	Also, candidates can ignore primaries that fall after the nomination has already been secured, and would owe less to those states politically.
noLabel	In situations where the nativistic movement exists inside of dominant culture it tends to be associated with xenophobic and assimilationist projects.	At the other end of the spectrum, in situations where immigrants greatly outnumber the original inhabitants or where contact forces economic and cultural change, nativistic movements can allow cultural survival.
noLabel	Perique, a farmer called Pierre Chenet is credited with first turning this local tobacco into the Perique in 1824 through the technique of pressure-fermentation.	Considered the truffle of pipe tobaccos, it is used as a component in many blended pipe tobaccos, but is too strong to be smoked pure.
noLabel	The Treason Act 1351, the Treason Act 1795 and the Treason Act 1817 form part of the law of New South Wales.	The Treason Act 1795 and the Treason Act 1817 have been repealed by section 11  of the Crimes Act 1900, except in so far as they relate to the compassing, imagining, inventing, devising, or intending death or destruction, or any bodily harm tending to death or destruction, maim, or wounding, imprisonment, or restraint of the person of the heirs and successors of King George III of the United Kingdom, and the expressing, uttering, or declaring of such compassings, imaginations, inventions, devices, or intentions, or any of them. 
noLabel	Vendors typically limit the number of computers on which software can be used, and prohibit the user from installing the software on extra computers.	Restricted use is sometimes enforced through a technical measure, such as product activation, a product key or serial number, a hardware key, or copy protection. 
noLabel	In nations where equality of opportunity is absent, it can negatively impact economic growth, according to some views; one report in Al Jazeera suggested that Egypt, Tunisia, and other Middle Eastern nations were stagnating economically in part because of a dearth of equal opportunity .	The principle of equal opportunity can conflict with notions of meritocracy in circumstances in which individual differences in human abilities are believed to be determined mostly by genetics; in such circumstances, there can be conflict about how to achieve fairness in such situations .
noLabel	" She stated her view that it would be appropriate for Australia to become a republic only once Queen Elizabeth II's reign ends .	On the process for becoming a republic, Gillard said "What I would like to see as the prime minister is that we work our way through to an agreement on a republic.
noLabel	Burying is a type of tactical voting in which a voter insincerely ranks an alternative lower in the hopes of defeating it.	For example, in the Borda count or in a Condorcet method, a voter may insincerely rank a perceived strong alternative last in order to help his or her preferred alternative beat it.
noLabel	Gowns have been associated with academia since the birth of the university in the 14th and 15th centuries, perhaps because most early scholars were priests or church officials.	Over time, the gowns worn by degree-holders have become standardized to some extent, although traditions in individual countries and even institutions have established a diverse range of gown styles, and some have ended the custom entirely, even for graduation ceremonies. 
noLabel	In the Family Guy episode "Not All Dogs Go to Heaven", Meg takes Brian to the church to burn books on science and evolution, citing them as "harmful to God".	Among the burnt books are "On the Origin of Species" by Charles Darwin, "A Brief History of Time", by Stephen Hawking, and a fictional book entitled "Logic for First Graders". 
noLabel	The pressures of human migrations, whether as outright conquest or by slow cultural infiltration and resettlement, have affected the grand epochs in history and in land (for example, the decline of the Roman Empire); under the form of colonization, migration has transformed the world (such as the prehistoric and historic settlements of Australia and the Americas).	Population genetics studied in traditionally settled modern populations have opened a window into the historical patterns of migrations, a technique pioneered by Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza. 
noLabel	As a result of these protests, a number of groups formed to combat the austerity measures that began with the cuts to higher education.	One such example is Bloomsbury Fightback!, which is a group of radical students and workers in Bloomsbury, London, centred around the Bloomsbury Colleges in the University of London and focusing on organising around education and employment issues, of which many are the result of the austerity measures, . 
noLabel	The Hindu tradition of Brahmacharya places great emphasis on abstinence as a way of harnessing the energy of body and mind towards the goal of spiritual realization.	In males, the semen (Veerya) is considered sacred, and its preservation (except when used for procreation) and conversion into higher life-energy (Ojas) is considered essential for the development of enhanced intellectual and spiritual capacities. 
noLabel	Attitudes of the larger society towards acculturation, and thus the range of acculturation strategies available, have not been consistent over time.	For example, for most of American history, policies and attitudes have been based around established ethnic hierarchies with an expectation of one-way assimilation for European immigrants .
noLabel	Some copyright scholars believe that, regardless of contemporary advances in technology, copyright remains the fundamental way by which authors, sculptors, artists, musicians and others can fund the creation of new works, and that without a significant period of legal protection of their future income, many valuable books and artworks would not be created .	They argue that the public interest is best served by repeated extension of copyright terms to encompass multiple generations beyond the copyright holder's life, as this increases the present value of the copyright, encouraging the creation for new works and making additional investments in older works (for example, the restoration of old movies) economically viable .
noLabel	By the last quarter of the 19th century, magazines such as Punch carried advertisements for different brands of cigarettes, snuff, and pipe tobacco.	Advertising was significantly helped by the distribution of free or subsidized branded cigarettes to troops during World War I and World War II.
noLabel	Yields of nuclear explosions can be very hard to calculate, even using numbers as rough as in the kiloton or megaton range (much less down to the resolution of individual terajoules).	Even under very controlled conditions, precise yields can be very hard to determine, and for less controlled conditions the margins of error can be quite large.
noLabel	State racism contributed as well to the formation of the Dominican Republic's identity  and violent actions encouraged by Dominican governmental xenophobia against Haitians and "Haitian looking" people.	Currently the Dominican Republic employs a de facto system of separatism for children and grandchildren of Haitians and black Dominicans, denying them birth certificates, education and access to health care .
noLabel	Reducing emissions from the tropical deforestation and forest degradation (REDD) in developing countries has emerged as new potential to complement ongoing climate policies.	The idea consists in providing financial compensations for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from deforestation and forest degradation" . 
noLabel	It is forbidden according to Swedish law for any administrative authority to make inquiries about the sources of any type of newspaper .	These laws, and the hosting by PRQ, make it difficult for any authorities to take WikiLeaks offline; they place an onus of proof upon any complainant whose suit would circumscribe WikiLeaks' liberty, e.g.
noLabel	Typically, a work must meet minimal standards of originality in order to qualify for copyright, and the copyright expires after a set period of time (some jurisdictions may allow this to be extended).	Different countries impose different tests, although generally the requirements are low; in the United Kingdom there has to be some 'skill, labour and judgment' that has gone into it .
noLabel	An issue that comes forward, especially for people who live in countries which is not their country of origin is that of which culture they should follow.	Should they try to fit in and adapt to the culture surrounding them, or should they hold on to their culture and try to avoid interacting with the culture surrounding them?
noLabel	After the Vietnam War, many people in Cambodia, Laos, and especially Vietnam became refugees in the late 1970s and 1980s, after the fall of Saigon.	In Vietnam, the new communist government sent many people who supported the old government in the South to "re-education camps", and others to "new economic zones."
noLabel	This protects those people from missing out on voting if they are prevented from attending parliament, but also allows their party to prevent them from voting against its wishes.	In some legislatures, proxy voting is not allowed, but politicians may rig voting buttons or otherwise illegally cast 'ghost votes' while absent .
noLabel	His proposal to halt foreign aid to countries not cooperating in the effort against international drug trafficking was unsuccessful, but did lead to a bill that authorized the president to reduce aid to such countries .	Rangel created controversy in New York City by accusing some members of the New York Police Department of cooperating with drug pushers . 
noLabel	As of 2006, the United States was believed to maintain an arsenal of around 9,960 intact warheads, of which 5,735 were considered active or operational, and of these only a certain number were deployed at any given time.	These broke down into 5,021 "strategic" warheads, 1,050 of which were deployed on land-based missile systems (all on Minuteman ICBMs), 1,955 on bombers (B-52, B-1B, and B-2), and 2,016 on submarines (Ohio class), according to a 2006 report by the Natural Resources Defense Council .
noLabel	This, it is argued, (due to its impact on development, food requirements, resources and the environment) adversely affected the welfare and progress of countries concerned.	It further argued that this would undermine the stability of countries friendly to the US and therefore harm the "national security" of the US as well . 
noLabel	Tobacco production requires the use of a large amount of pesticides; tobacco companies recommend up to 16 separate applications of pesticides just in the period between planting the seeds in greenhouses and transplanting the young plants to the field .	Pesticide use has been worsened by the desire to produce larger crops in less time because of the decreasing market value of tobacco.
noLabel	The energy released by the primary compresses the secondary through a process called "radiation implosion", at which point it is heated and undergoes nuclear fusion.	Because of the staged design, it is thought that a tertiary section, again of fusion fuel, could be added as well, based on the same principle as the secondary; the AN602 "Tsar Bomba" is thought to have been a three-stage device. 
noLabel	In the 1870s feminists advanced the concept of voluntary motherhood as a political critique of involuntary motherhood and expressing a desire for women's emancipation .	Advocates for voluntary motherhood disapproved of contraception, arguing that women should only engage in sex for the purpose of procreation and advocated for periodic or permanent abstinence . 
noLabel	Gibbs argues that "Homicide can be described either as control or as resulting from control failure" (1989: 35), and proposes that the homicide rate is a function not just of the sheer volume of disputes, but also of the frequency of recourse to a third party for peaceful dispute settlement (p37).	When one person fails to control the actions of another through the third party, murder represents another violent attempt at direct control.
noLabel	I believe that this system is part of the reason why voters ignore political parties and why candidates try an appeal to voters' material desires and relationships instead of political parties.	[..] Moreover, this system creates a political environment where a Member is elected by a relatively small number of voters with the effect that this Member is then expected to ignore his party’s philosophy and instead look after that core base of voters in terms of their material needs.
noLabel	It officially restricts married, urban couples to having only one child, while allowing exemptions for several cases, including rural couples, ethnic minorities, and parents without any siblings themselves .	A spokesperson of the Committee on the One-Child Policy has said that approximately 35.9% of China's population is currently subject to the one-child restriction .
noLabel	The rate of firearm deaths in the United States (14.24 per 100 000) exceeds that of its economic counterparts (1.76) eightfold and that of UMI countries (9.69) by a factor of 1.5.	Suicide and homicide contribute equally to total firearm deaths in the US, but most firearm deaths are suicides (71%) in HI countries and homicides (72%) in UMI countries.
noLabel	Then-senator John F. Kennedy recognized the intent of the founding fathers "fears of governmental tyranny" and "security of the nation" in his statement Know Your Lawmakers, Guns, April 1960, p.&nbsp;4 (1960), "By calling attention to 'a well regulated militia,' the 'security' of the nation, and the right of each citizen 'to keep and bear arms,' our founding fathers recognized the essentially civilian nature of our economy.	Although it is extremely unlikely that the fears of governmental tyranny which gave rise to the Second Amendment will ever be a major danger to our nation, the Amendment still remains an important declaration of our basic civilian-military relationships, in which every citizen must be ready to participate in the defense of his country.
noLabel	The 1982 census (which reported a total population of 1,008,180,738) is generally accepted as significantly more reliable, accurate, and thorough than the previous two.	Various international organizations eagerly assisted the Chinese in conducting the 1982 census, including the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, which donated US$15.6 million for the preparation and execution of the census. 
noLabel	But Delegate Delamater Davis of Norfolk (the state's largest city) said his city would likely operate its schools without state funds if ordered to integrate .	By mid-August, 18 local school districts had placed their budgets on a month-to-month basis so they could close schools on short notice if ordered to desegregate .
noLabel	In 2004, British cyclist David Millar was stripped of his world time-trial championship after pharmaceutical EPO was found in his possession.	Because athletes sometimes inject or infuse non-banned substances such as vitamin B or electrolytes, the possession of syringes or other medical equipment is not necessarily evidence of doping. 
noLabel	In many countries green energy currently provides a very small amount of electricity, generally contributing less than 2 to 5% to the overall pool.	In some U.S. states, local governments have formed regional power purchasing pools using Community Choice Aggregation and Solar Bonds to achieve a 51% renewable mix or higher, such as in the City of San Francisco . 
noLabel	However, the following paragraph adds: "whenever either organization proposes to initiate a programme or activity on a subject in which the other organization has or may have a substantial interest, the first party shall consult the other with a view to adjusting the matter by mutual agreement.	" The nature of this statement has led some pressure groups and activists to believe that the WHO is restricted in its ability to investigate events and prevent further catastrophes, and thus believe WHO must regain what they see as "independence" .
noLabel	In 2009, the Department of Education produced a report that claimed the untimely return of unearned Title IV funds for more than 10 percent of sampled students.	The report also expressed concern that some students register and begin attending classes before completely understanding the implications of enrollment, including their eligibility for student financial aid.
noLabel	On the 8th of January, 2009, the Pope's justice minister, Cardinal Renato Martino, sharply criticised Israel's actions and likened the Gaza Strip to a "big concentration camp" .	While noting that Hamas rockets into Israel were "certainly not sugared almonds", he called the situation in Gaza "horrific" and said conditions there went "against human dignity."
noLabel	In many cultures all over the world, avoiding eye contact or looking at the ground when talking to one's parents, an elder, or one of higher social status is a sign of respect.	In contrast, such body language can be construed as deception, boredom, disinterest or shame (on the part of the doer) in others.
noLabel	A five-year, $14 million study of U.S. adult literacy involving lengthy interviews of U.S. adults, the most comprehensive study of literacy ever commissioned by the U.S. government, was released in September 1993.	It involved lengthy interviews of over 26,700 adults statistically balanced for age, gender, ethnicity, education level, and location (urban, suburban, or rural) in 12 states across the U.S. and was designed to represent the U.S. population as a whole.
noLabel	Although cigarette smoking causes a greater increase of the risk of cancer than cigar smoking, cigar smokers still have an increased risk for many health problems, including cancer, when compared to non-smokers .	As for second-hand smoke, the NIH study points to the large amount of smoke generated by one cigar, saying "cigars can contribute substantial amounts of tobacco smoke to the indoor environment; and, when large numbers of cigar smokers congregate together in a cigar smoking event, the amount of ETS [i.e.
noLabel	The Liberal Party of Canada, under the leadership of Paul Martin, won a minority victory in the June 2004 general elections.	In December 2003, Martin had succeeded fellow Liberal Jean Chrétien, who had, in 2000, become the first Prime Minister to lead three consecutive majority governments since 1945.
noLabel	In 2005, Paul introduced the We the People Act, which would have removed "any claim involving the laws, regulations, or policies of any State or unit of local government relating to the free exercise or establishment of religion" from the jurisdiction of federal courts .	If made law, this provision would purportedly permit state, county, and local governments to decide whether to allow displays of religious text and imagery, but would not interfere with the application of relevant federal law. 
noLabel	Every one in 9 black families have a close relative in prison over aggressive arrests done by US law enforcement .	Even though usage of illegal drugs are roughly the same along racial lines, the Drug Policy Alliance Network shows that blacks constitute 13 percent of drug users, but are 38 percent of people arrested for drug offenses, and 59 percent of those convicted .
noLabel	The Congressional Budget Office reported in October 2009 the reasons for the changes in the 2008 and 2009 deficits, which were approximately $460 billion and $1,410 billion, respectively.	The CBO estimated that ARRA increased the deficit by $200 billion for 2009, split evenly between tax cuts and additional spending, excluding any feedback effects on the economy . 
noLabel	Private schools are one of three types of school in Australia, the other two being government schools (state schools) and religious.	Whilst private schools are sometimes considered 'public' schools (as in the Associated Public Schools of Victoria), the term 'public school' is usually synonymous with a government school. 
noLabel	Some have argued that firms actually encourage (or at least prefer) the rule of law, judging that, on balance, it is "good for business".	If so, the race to the bottom may become a "Race to the middle" in legal enforcement, assisted by mobile capital, to create the optimum legal conditions for investment (balancing legal protections for labour and capital). 
noLabel	Aung Din of the US Campaign for Burma has said that the Burmese government is exploiting the elections to have Western sanctions lifted as quickly as possible, since a free and transparent election has been one of the conditions set by the European Union and American governments .	Moreover, the National League for Democracy has pointed out irregularities in voter lists and rule violations by local election committees .
noLabel	For local (non-statewide) office, the number of signatures required to place a candidate on the ballot is much lower for qualified parties, and they are the only parties eligible to hold primary elections.	Automatic ballot access is valid for four years, and parties must gain 50,000 votes in the next gubernatorial election to again qualify for automatic ballot access. 
noLabel	According to Brazilian law, treason is the crime of disloyalty by a citizen to the Federal Republic of Brazil, applying to combatants of the Brazilian military forces.	Treason during warfare is the only crime for which a person can be sentenced to death (see capital punishment in Brazil). 
noLabel	Budget resolutions and appropriations bills, which reflect spending priorities of Congress, will usually differ from funding levels in the president's budget.	The president, however, retains substantial influence over the budget process through his veto power and through his congressional allies when his party has a majority in Congress. 
noLabel	The phrase power behind the throne refers to a person or group that informally exercises the real power of an office.	In politics, it most commonly refers to a spouse, aide, or advisor of a political leader (often called a "figurehead") who serves as de facto leader, setting policy through influence or manipulation. 
noLabel	In chapter thirteen, Hitchens addresses the question of whether religious people behave more virtuously than non-religious people (atheists, agnostics, or freethinkers).	Hitchens uses the battle against slavery in the United States, and Abraham Lincoln to support his claim that non-religious people battle for moral causes with as much vigor and effect as religious advocates.
noLabel	However, Sky tends to focus on competitions which can fill its specialist sports channels on a regular basis, and many events are still shown on free to air television, especially annual and quadrennial events such as Wimbledon and the Olympics.	Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland each have their own feeds for BBC1 & BBC2 allowing the BBC to opt out of the UK wide programming to show a match in that area.
noLabel	The Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (MSA) was entered in November 1998, originally between the four largest United States tobacco companies and the attorneys general of 46 states.	The states settled their Medicaid lawsuits against the tobacco industry for recovery of their tobacco-related, health-care costs, and also exempted the companies from private tort liability regarding harm caused by tobacco use .
noLabel	In a study found that in those who threaten the President, the primary differentiating variable related to lethality was "opportunity and happenstance" .	Conversely, a defendant's writings in his anger management workbook threatening to kill the President upon the defendant's release from the penitentiary were ruled to have fallen within the dangerous patient exception to psychotherapist-patient privilege . 
noLabel	Sometimes, the term "consumerism" is also used to refer to the consumerists movement, consumer protection or consumer activism, which seeks to protect and inform consumers by requiring such practices as honest packaging and advertising, product guarantees, and improved safety standards.	In this sense it is a movement or a set of policies aimed at regulating the products, services, methods, and standards of manufacturers, sellers, and advertisers in the interests of the buyer . 
noLabel	In 2005, the International Atomic Energy Agency presented the results of a series of public opinion surveys in the Global Public Opinion on Nuclear Issues report .	Majorities of respondents in 14 of the 18 countries surveyed believe that the risk of terrorist acts involving radioactive materials at nuclear facilities is high, because of insufficient protection.
noLabel	In Finland, defamation is a crime, according to the Criminal Code (Chapter 24, Section 9), with a penalty of imprisonment of up to six months or a fine.	When the defamation occurs in public, the crime is “aggravated defamation” (Chapter 24, Section 10), with a maximum punishment of two years in prison or a fine.
noLabel	During this period, the cultural interaction between Australia and the U.S. were elevated to a higher level as over 1 million U.S. military personnel moved through Australia during the course of the war.	The relationship continued to evolve throughout the second half of the 20th Century, and today now involves strong relationships at the executive and mid levels of government and the military, leading Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, Kurt M. Campbell to declare that "in the last ten years, [Australia] has ascended to one of the closest one or two allies [of the U.S.] on the planet" .
noLabel	Human rights are also described as a sociological pattern of rule setting (as in the sociological theory of law and the work of Weber).	These approaches include the notion that individuals in a society accept rules from legitimate authority in exchange for security and economic advantage (as in Rawls) – a social contract.
noLabel	Flirting is an expression of sexuality and a common form of social interaction whereby one person obliquely indicates a romantic and/or sexual interest towards another.	However, flirting undertaken for amusement, with no intention of developing any further relationship, poses ethical dilemmas and sometimes faces disapproval from others, either because it can be misinterpreted as more serious, or it may be viewed as "cheating" if the person flirting is already in a romantic relationship with someone else; or if the person to whom flirting is directed is in an exclusive or a serious relationship.
noLabel	During FY2008, the government also accrued a non-cash interest expense of $212&nbsp;billion for intra-governmental debt, primarily the Social Security Trust Fund, for a total interest expense of $454&nbsp;billion .	This accrued interest is added to the Social Security Trust Fund and therefore the national debt each year and will be paid to Social Security recipients in the future. 
noLabel	With professional care there also comes moral issues; it’s likely that a person wouldn’t trust a stranger to care for someone they love, and would find more peace of mind in taking on the responsibility themselves.	For this reason, some victims of the care penalty have actually chosen the position, though they are aware of the sacrifices that come with it. 
noLabel	He was initially state school educated in Aberdeen, later attending the independent Robert Gordon's College, to which he won a scholarship .	From 1985 to 1988 he studied English at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, where he served as President of the Oxford Union. 
noLabel	As the daughter grows up, his attitude changes, and the song ends with his tearful farewell as she leaves for college.	Due to its implied pro-life message, "There Goes My Life" was sung at the inauguration of George W. Bush in 2005.
noLabel	More recently, in Milkovich v. Lorain Journal Co., , the Supreme Court backed off from the protection from "opinion" announced in Gertz.	The court in Milkovich specifically held that there is no wholesale exception to defamation law for statements labeled "opinion," but instead that a statement must be provably false (falsifiable) before it can be the subject of a libel suit. 
noLabel	In the last several decades, US colleges and universities have become increasingly open to accepting students from diverse backgrounds, including home-schooled students .	According to one source, homeschoolers have now matriculated at over 900 different colleges and universities, including institutions with highly selective standards of admission such as the US military academies, Rice University, Haverford College, Harvard University, Stanford University, Cornell University, Brown University, Dartmouth College, and Princeton University . 
noLabel	Round 2: No candidate has an absolute majority of votes (in this election that would be 13) so the two candidates with the most votes, Ice Cream and Fruit, proceed to a second round, while Apple Pie and Celery are eliminated.	Because their favorite candidates have been eliminated Apple Pie and Celery supporters must now vote for one of the two remaining candidates.
noLabel	Speaking at Brandeis University, Goldstone noted that the widened mandate was presented by the president of the UNHRC to a plenary session, where it did not encounter a single objection .	He later described as "tiresome and inept" allegations forwarded by U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton that the mandate had not been broadened to cover violations by all parties . 
noLabel	For every voter with centre-left sympathies weighing the options of Labour or the Liberal Democrats as the candidate best placed in their area to defeat the Conservatives, there are plenty of others on the centre-right who are equally keen to ensure the election of anyone but Labour.	In Scotland and Wales, anti-nationalist tactical voting may add yet another ingredient to the mix.Tactical voting will unquestionably leave its mark on Thursday, just as it has in all recent general elections.
noLabel	Another important point Payne makes is that leaving poverty is not as simple as acquiring a lot of money and moving up but also includes giving up relationships in exchange for achievement.	This helps to explain why the culture of poverty tends to keep families in poverty from generation to generation as this is the culture they know and the relationships they have are all within that class. 
noLabel	By 5000&nbsp;BC, the Sumerians had developed core agricultural techniques including large-scale intensive cultivation of land, monocropping, organized irrigation, and the use of a specialized labor force, particularly along the waterway now known as the Shatt al-Arab, from its Persian Gulf delta to the confluence of the Tigris and Euphrates.	Domestication of wild aurochs and mouflon into cattle and sheep, respectively, ushered in the large-scale use of animals for food/fiber and as beasts of burden.
noLabel	According to professor David Christian of MacQuarie University, an underlying "big history" trend has been a shift from seeing people as resources to exploit towards a perspective of seeing people as individuals to empower.	According to Christian, in many ancient agrarian civilizations, roughly nine of every ten persons was a peasant exploited by a ruling class.
noLabel	Since the expansion of the European Union, the most recent wave of migration has been from surrounding European nations, particularly Central Europe, and increasingly Asia, replacing North Africa as the major immigration area.	Some 997,000 Romanians are officially registered as living in Italy, replacing Albanians (590,000) and Moroccans (455,000) as the largest ethnic minority group, but independent estimates put the actual number of Romanians at double that figure or perhaps even more.
noLabel	Since the late 1960s, Sweden has had the highest tax quota (as percentage of GDP) in the industrialised world, although today the gap has narrowed and Denmark has surpassed Sweden as the most heavily taxed country among developed countries.	Sweden has a two step progressive tax scale with a municipal income tax of about 30% and an additional high-income state tax of 20–25% when a salary exceeds roughly 320,000 SEK per year.
noLabel	In 1984, James Keegstra, a Canadian high-school teacher, was charged with denying the Holocaust and making antisemitic claims in his classroom as part of the course material.	Keegstra and his lawyer, Doug Christie, argued that the section of the Criminal Code of Canada (now section 319{2}), is an infringement of the Charter of Rights (section 9{b}).
noLabel	This theory re-emerged in the 1990s, following Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti's recognition of the existence of Gladio before the Parliamentary assembly on 24 October 1990.	Juridical investigations into the Piazza Fontana bombing and the Bologna massacre and several parliamentary reports pointed towards such a deliberate strategy of tension.
noLabel	For example, according to the UNHCR, in 1999 Japan accepted 16 refugees for resettlement, while the United States took in 85,010, and New Zealand (which is smaller than Japan) accepted 1,140.	Between 1981, when Japan ratified the U.N. Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, and 2002, Japan recognized only 305 persons as refugees .
noLabel	A 2009 study published in Brain found that individuals with a history of concussions might demonstrate a decline in both physical and mental performance for longer than 30 years.	Compared to their peers with no history of brain trauma, sufferers of concussion exhibited effects including loss of episodic memory and reduced muscle speed .
noLabel	If only one monarch has used a particular name, no ordinal is used; for example, Queen Victoria is not known as "Victoria I", and ordinals are not used for English monarchs who reigned before the Norman conquest of England.	The question of whether numbering for British monarchs is based on previous English or Scottish monarchs was raised in 1953 when Scottish nationalists challenged the Queen's use of "Elizabeth II", on the grounds that there had never been an "Elizabeth I" in Scotland.
noLabel	Although teacher support is not usually provided in open courseware programs, families teaching their own children may, if the study met their requirements, grant credit for the work through their homeschools.	The University of California at Berkeley, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and many other renowned universities have contributed materials in this area.
noLabel	The list also included all of Israel's cabinet ministers, a variety of high and low-ranking officers, and the photographs of ten soldiers who could not be identified by name .	Today's Zaman reported that the MIT had operated agents inside Israel to confirm the soldiers' identities, a claim denied by the Turkish government.
noLabel	His grandson Athelstan was the first king to rule over a unitary kingdom roughly corresponding to the present borders of England, though its constituent parts retained strong regional identities.	The 11th century saw England become more stable, despite a number of wars with the Danes, which resulted in a Danish monarchy for one generation .
noLabel	The after-school programs at California's elementary schools are predominately funded with  grants mandated when voters statewide approved California's Proposition 49 (2002).	These grants provide for much of what the ASSETS grants provide at the secondary level, though there is an added family literacy component. 
noLabel	In addition to the debt increase required to fund government spending in excess of tax revenues during a given year, some Treasury securities issued in prior years mature and must be "rolled-over" or replaced with new security issuance.	During the financial crisis, the Treasury issued a sizable amount of relatively shorter-term debt, which caused the average maturity on total Treasury debt to reach a 25-year low of just more than 50 months in 2009.
noLabel	Much better, they say, to introduce year-round schooling, in which shorter blocks of learning time are interspersed with more frequent but brief holidays (for example 45 days of school followed by 15 days of holiday).	[1] However, others say that the present timetable is fine, and that any change will just cause needless upheaval without dealing with the true reasons for educational underachievement.
noLabel	Undocumented refugees and outlawed Christians and Jews are together forming a new exodus community that takes seriously a God who acts in history.	Public sanctuary is an act that refuses to leave foreign policy to ambassadors and generals and compassion to the limits of law.
noLabel	Bell's theory of the 'queer ladder of mobility' hypothesised that 'ethnic succession' (the attainment of power and control by one more marginalised ethnic group over other less marginalised groups) occurs by promoting the perpetration of criminal activities within a disenfranchised or oppressed demographic.	Whilst early organised crime was dominated by the Sicilian Mafia they have been relatively substituted by the Irish Mob (early 1900s), the Aryan Brotherhood (1960s onwards), Colombian Medellin cartel and Cali cartel (mid 1970s - 1990s), and more recently the Mexican Tijuana Cartel (late 1980s onwards), the Russian Mafia (1988 onwards), Al-Qaeda (1988 onwards) and the Taliban (1994 onwards).
noLabel	Essentially, this public sphere describes the new venues and modes of communication allowing for rational exchange that appeared in the 18th century.	Habermas argued that the public sphere was bourgeois, egalitarian, rational, and independent from the state, making it the ideal venue for intellectuals to critically examine contemporary politics and society, away from the interference of established authority. 
noLabel	v. Pacifica Foundation upheld the commission’s determination that George Carlin’s classic “seven dirty words” monologue, with its deliberate, repetitive and creative use of vulgarities, was indecent.	But the court at that time left open the question of whether the use of “an occasional expletive” could be punished.
noLabel	Streets in the sky is a term used to describe a style of architecture that emerged in Britain in the 1960s and 1970s.	Generally built to replace run-down terraced housing, the new designs included not only modern improvements such as inside toilets, but also shops and other community facilities within high-rise blocks .
noLabel	" Rep. Ed Whitfield, a member of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce concurred, saying "this is the most technologically advanced and safest pipeline ever proposed.	" However, while TransCanada had asserted that a set of 57&nbsp;conditions will ensure Keystone XL's safe operation, Anthony Swift of the Natural Resources Defense Council asserted that all but a few of these conditions simply restate current minimum standards . 
noLabel	The most important animal exportation from the Old World to the New were those of the horse and dog (dogs were already present in the pre-Columbian Americas but not in the numbers and breeds suited to farm work).	Although not usually food animals, the horse (including donkeys and ponies) and dog quickly filled essential production roles on western-hemisphere farms. 
noLabel	In January 2010, about 175 anti-nuclear activists participated in a 126-mile walk in an effort to block the re-licensing of Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant .	In February 2010, a large number of anti-nuclear activists and private citizens gathered in Montpelier, to be at hand as the Vermont Senate voted 26 to 4 against the "Public Good" certificate needed for continued operation of Vermont Yankee past 2012 . 
noLabel	According to the United States government, Los Zetas control 75% of Guatemala through violence, political corruption and infiltration in the country's institutions .	Sources mentioned that Los Zetas gained ground in Guatemala after they killed several high-profile members and the supreme leader of Los Leones, an organized crime group from Guatemala .
noLabel	Ireland's Sunday Business Post says "Moyo’s analysis of the fundamental underpinnings of the credit crunch, especially the role of leveraging, is .. nuanced and insightful" .	The London business newspaper City AM summarizes the book by saying "the game's not over for the West, and Dambisa Moyo wants us to win" . 
noLabel	It has been suggested that the prevalence of use among high-school students in the U.S. may be as high as 2.7% .	Male students used anabolic steroids more frequently than female students and, on average, those that participated in sports used steroids more often than those that did not.
noLabel	Palin dismissed Public Safety Commissioner Walt Monegan on July 11, 2008, citing performance-related issues, such as not being "a team player on budgeting issues" and "egregious rogue behavior.	" Palin attorney Thomas Van Flein said that the "last straw" was Monegan's planned trip to Washington, D.C., to seek funding for a new, multimillion-dollar sexual assault initiative the governor hadn't yet approved .
noLabel	Many involved recognize that the terminology has often led to confusion, both within the medical community and with the general public.	The American Psychiatric Association requests input as to how the terminology of this illness should be altered as it moves forward with DSM-5 discussion.
noLabel	Having short-term extensions on the PTC can potentially slow wind development, raise costs, require a greater reliance on foreign manufacturing, produce transmission issues, and most importantly can reduce the amount of research and development of wind energy .	The world energy council has estimated that new wind capacity worldwide will amount to $150 to $ 400 billion in new business over the next twenty years . 
noLabel	By June, thousands of logs from approximately 20,000 trees had been confiscated in the north-eastern ports of Vohémar and Antalaha .	However, the economic and political circumstances that were fueling the looting had not changed, allowing illegal logging to continue and driving even the impoverished gangs of Malagasy loggers to accept partial payments for their labor . 
noLabel	In the 2008 Republican primary, states that ran early primaries were punished by a reduction of 50% in the number of delegates they could send to the national convention.	Extension of this idea would set timing tiers, under which states that ran earlier primaries would send proportionally fewer delegates to the national convention, and states that waited would get a higher proportional number of delegates to the convention. 
noLabel	Although Dewey referred to his philosophy as "instrumentalism" rather than pragmatism, he was one of the three major figures in American pragmatism, along with Charles Sanders Peirce, who invented the term, and William James, who popularized it.	Dewey worked from strongly Hegelian influences, unlike James, whose intellectual lineage was primarily British, drawing particularly on empiricist and utilitarian ideas .
noLabel	While overt employment discrimination by sex per se remains a concern of feminist economists, in recent years more attention has also been paid to discrimination against caregivers—those women, and some men, who give hands-on care to children or sick or elderly friends or relatives.	Because many business and government policies were designed to accommodate the "ideal worker" (that is, the traditional male worker who had no such responsibilities) rather than caregiver-workers, inefficient and inequitable treatment may result .
noLabel	Research journals have been so successful that the number of journals and of papers has proliferated over the past few decades, and the credo of the modern academic has become "publish or perish".	Except for generalist journals such as Science or Nature, the topics covered in any single journal have tended to be narrow, and readership and citation have declined.
noLabel	Sweden has a significant folk-music scene, both in the traditional style as well as more modern interpretations which often mix in elements of rock and jazz.	Väsen is more of a traditionalist group, using a unique, traditional Swedish instrument called the nyckelharpa while Garmarna, Nordman and Hedningarna have more modern elements. 
noLabel	In its first report, submitted in September 2010, the UN fact-finding mission found that the IDF broke international law, and that there was evidence sufficient to initiate prosecutions for breaches of the Geneva Convention.	The report stated that: "The conduct of the Israeli military and other personnel towards the flotilla passengers was not only disproportionate to the occasion but demonstrated levels of totally unnecessary and incredible violence," and determined that Israeli commandos summarily executed six passengers aboard the MV Mavi Marmara .
noLabel	Protocol 2 did not amend the text of the convention as such, but stipulated that it was to be treated as an integral part of the text.	All of these protocols have required the unanimous ratification of all the member states of the Council of Europe to enter into force. 
noLabel	Rousseau's principal work on education is Emile: Or, On Education, in which he lays out an educational program for a hypothetical newborn's education to adulthood.	Rousseau provided a dual critique of both the vision of education set forth in Plato's Republic and also of the society of his contemporary Europe and the educational methods he regarded as contributing to it; he held that a person can either be a man or a citizen, and that while Plato's plan could have brought the latter at the expense of the former, contemporary education failed at both tasks.
noLabel	The radiation implosion mechanism is a heat engine exploiting the temperature difference between the secondary's hot, surrounding radiation channel and its relatively cool interior.	This temperature difference is briefly maintained by a massive heat barrier called the "pusher", which also serves as an implosion tamper, increasing and prolonging the compression of the secondary.
noLabel	Moral hazard can be divided into two types when it involves asymmetric information (or lack of verifiability) of the outcome of a random event.	An ex-ante moral hazard is a change in behavior prior to the outcome of the random event, whereas ex-post involves behavior after the outcome .
noLabel	The efforts of U.S. and Colombian governments have been criticized for focusing on fighting leftist guerrillas in southern regions without applying enough pressure on right-wing paramilitaries and continuing drug smuggling operations in the north of the country .	Human Rights Watch, congressional committees and other entities have documented the existence of connections between members of the Colombian military and the AUC, which the U.S. government has listed as a terrorist group, and that Colombian military personnel have committed human rights abuses which would make them ineligible for U.S. aid under current laws. 
noLabel	Many parts of the San Francisco Bay Area have also adopted urban growth boundaries; 25 of its cities and 5 of its counties have urban growth boundaries.	Many of these were adopted with the support and advocacy of Greenbelt Alliance, a non-profit land conservation and urban planning organization. 
noLabel	Western foreigners in Japan, particularly those from Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand, are often called 外国人 Gaikokujin or 外人 Gaijin.	The first large influx of such foreigners occurred in the 1980s, when the Japanese government adopted a policy to give scholarships to large numbers of foreign students to study at Japanese universities. 
noLabel	A large majority of the funding for elite sport in the United Kingdom is commercially generated, but this is concentrated heavily on a few sports.	For example the English Premiership's 20 clubs had an estimated combined turnover of £1.25 billion in 2003-04 according to Deloitte, and British professional football's total income was in the region of £2 billion.
noLabel	On November 3, 2008, the State of Alaska Personnel Board reported that there was no probable cause to believe Palin or any other state official had violated state ethical standards .	The report further stated that the Branchflower Report used the wrong statute in reaching its conclusions, misconstrued the available evidence and did not consider or obtain all of the material evidence required to properly reach findings in the matter .
noLabel	Presidents Andrew Jackson and Harry S. Truman were uninjured during assassination attempts, as was President Gerald Ford in two separate attempts only a few weeks apart .	President Ronald Reagan survived an assassination attempt after being shot by John Hinckley, Jr. with a Röhm RG-14 .22-caliber revolver .
noLabel	Officials targeted those who carried anti-Bush signs and escorted them to the free speech zones prior to and during the event.	Reporters were often barred by local officials from displaying these protesters on camera or speaking to them within the zone .
noLabel	This format is intended to be "bowl-centered" rather than a traditional play-off system, since numerous FBS Conferences have expressed their unwillingness to participate in a play-off system .	However, due to the unique and often esoteric nature of the BCS format, there has been controversy as to which two teams should play for the national championship and which teams should play in the four other BCS bowl games (Fiesta Bowl, Orange Bowl, Rose Bowl, and Sugar Bowl).
noLabel	By the 14th century, a significant number of slaves came from sub-Saharan Africa, leading to the likes of Egyptian historian Al-Abshibi (1388–1446) writing: "It is said that when the [black] slave is sated, he fornicates, when he is hungry, he steals.	" According to J. Philippe Rushton, Arab relations with blacks whom the Muslims had dealt as slave traders for over 1,000 years could be summed up as follows:
noLabel	ASEAN Plus Three was the first of these and was created to improve existing ties with the People's Republic of China, Japan, and South Korea.	This was followed by the even larger East Asia Summit, which included these countries as well as India, Australia, and New Zealand.
noLabel	Official responses to Zimbabwean migration in Botswana, Malawi, Zambia and Mozambique are still premised on the original definition from the 1951 Convention, and so were said to be failing to protect both Zimbabweans and their own citizens".	Those crossing the border were neither refugees - most did not even apply for refugee status - and, given the extent of economic collapse at home, nor they could hardly be considered as "voluntary" economic migrants.
noLabel	An argument similar to D'Souza's was raised by Nozick in Anarchy, State, and Utopia, who wrote that the only way to achieve equality of opportunity was "directly worsening the situations of those more favored with opportunity, or by improving the situation of those less well-favored.	" Nozick gave an argument of two suitors competing to marry one "fair lady": X was plain; Y was better looking and more intelligent.
noLabel	In terms of specific examples, the Internet was the result of publicly funded links among computers in government laboratories and research institutes.	And the combination of the federal tax deduction and a robust state tax deduction in California helped to create the modern wind power industry . 
noLabel	Hernstein and Murray claimed in The Bell Curve, creating much controversy, that genetic variation in average levels of intelligence (IQ) are at the root of racial disparities in achievement.	Other researchers have argued that there is no significant difference in inherent cognitive ability between different races that could help to explain the achievement gap, and that environment is at the root of the issue .
noLabel	He has opposed the Federal Marriage Amendment, which would amend the US Constitution to define marriage as the union of one man and one woman, because he worries that with its passage “liberal social engineers who wish to use federal government power to redefine marriage will be able to point to the constitutional marriage amendment as proof that the definition of marriage is indeed a federal matter!	I am unwilling either to cede to federal courts the authority to redefine marriage, or to deny a state’s ability to preserve the traditional definition of marriage.” . 
noLabel	In October 2011, The New York Times questioned the impartiality of the environmental analysis of the pipeline done by Cardno Entrix, an environmental contractor based in Houston.	The study found that the pipeline would have`limited adverse environmental impacts, but was authored by a firm that had "previously worked on projects with TransCanada and describes the pipeline company as a 'major client' in its marketing materials."
noLabel	Humans attempt to consciously conceal aspects of themselves from others due to shame, or from fear of violence, rejection, harassment, loss of acceptance, or loss of employment.	Humans may also attempt to conceal aspects of their own self which they are not capable of incorporating psychologically into their conscious being.
noLabel	On 27 June Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Lieberman stated that flotilla participants are "terror activists, seeking to create provocation and looking for blood", and that Israel plans to "deal with the flotilla properly".	He added that the majority of those who had planned to join the flotilla now understand that those who wish to help can do this through legal means . 
noLabel	Additionally, trainee teachers will spend more time in the classroom, there would be more assessment of teacher training applicants—including tests of character and emotional intelligence—and former troops will be offered sponsorship to retrain as teachers to improve discipline.	Teachers are also expected to receive guidance on how to search pupils for more items, including mobile phones and pornography, and when they can use force . 
noLabel	However, unlike in Continental European countries, the British government does not own universities' assets, and university staff are not civil servants.	Government regulation arises as a condition of accepting funding from bodies such as HEFCE and any university can in principle choose to leave the HEFCE regulated system at any time . 
noLabel	Zafirovski, (2010) argues that The Enlightenment is the source of critical ideas, such as the centrality of freedom, democracy, and reason as primary values of society – as opposed to the divine right of kings or traditions as the ruling authority .	This view argues that the establishment of a contractual basis of rights would lead to the market mechanism and capitalism, the scientific method, religious tolerance, and the organization of states into self-governing republics through democratic means.
noLabel	Dear brothers and sisters, we are saddened at the death of our beloved Pope John Paul I, and so the cardinals have called for a new bishop of Rome.	They called him from a faraway land – far and yet always close because of our communion in faith and Christian traditions.
noLabel	A different mechanism that favors the status quo is the requirement for a quorum, which ensures that the status quo remains if not enough voters participate in the vote.	Quorum requirements often depend only on the total number of votes rather than the number of actual votes cast for the winning option; however, this can sometimes encourage dissenting voters to refrain from voting entirely to prevent a quorum.
noLabel	Traditionally, social isolation has been represented as a one-dimensional construct organized around the notion of a person's position outside the peer group and refers to isolation from the group as a result of being excluded from the group by peers .	From children to adults, literature shows that people understand the concept of isolation and fear the repercussions of being isolated from groups of which they are a member.
noLabel	Europe is the world leader in offshore wind power, with the first offshore wind farm being installed in Denmark in 1991 .	In 2008, offshore wind power contributed 0.8 gigawatt (GW) of the total 28 GW of wind power capacity constructed that year .
noLabel	The Supreme Court has interpreted this clause to extend most, but not all, parts of the Bill of Rights to the states, a process known as incorporation of the Bill of Rights.	The balance of state and federal power under the incorporation doctrine is still an open question and continues to be fought separately for each right in the federal courts. 
noLabel	At least 41 systems exist to measure the severity, or grade, of a mild head injury, and there is little agreement among professionals about which is the best .	Several of the systems use loss of consciousness and amnesia as the primary determinants of the severity of the concussion . 
noLabel	A study by IMF economists found that the "heaviest lobbying came from lenders making riskier loans and expanding their mortgage business most rapidly during the housing boom," and that there were indications that heavy-lobbying lenders were more likely to receive bailout funds .	The study found a correlation between lobbying by financial institutions and excessive risk-taking during 2000-2007, and the authors concluded that "politically active lenders played a role in accumulation of risks and thus contributed to the financial crisis" .
noLabel	In other systems there are usually fixed terms, but the head of state retains authority to dissolve the legislature in certain circumstances.	Where a head of government has lost the confidence of parliament, some heads of state may refuse a parliamentary dissolution, where one is requested, forcing the head of government's resignation. 
noLabel	A more meta-perspective view than of Luther or Calvin is that an angel originally created flawless and named Lucifer convinced itself that it was God then set about deposing the necessary, original God, so becoming Satan the adversary and the King of Rebellion.	Since God is omiscient, this would have been foreseen along with the inevitable outcome (since Satan is not actually God, those ambitions will inevitably fail), so God chose (with certain limitations) to let things work themselves out, proving to the satisfaction of every intelligent being that things will only work in God's way.
noLabel	“It should likewise have to be admitted that for a half a century the Spirit failed to protect Pius XI, Pius XII, and a large part of the Catholic hierarchy from a very serious error.	This would mean that the leaders of the Church, acting with extreme imprudence, had condemned thousands of innocent human acts, forbidding, under pain of eternal damnation, a practice which would now be sanctioned.
noLabel	3/2/2011 4:10pm: Floor summary: DEBATE - The House proceeded with ten minutes of debate on the Polis motion to recommit with instructions.	The instructions contained in the motion seek to require the Committee on Transportation to report the bill back to the House forthwith with an amendment which inserts a section rescinding all unobligated balances of contract authority provided or reserved for planning, design, or construction of the Gravina Island bridge, Alaska, or the Knik Arm bridge, Alaska .
noLabel	Although the number of trace requests from Mexico has increased since February 2006, most guns seized in Mexico are not traced .	Moreover, most trace requests from Mexico do not succeed in identifying the gun dealer who originally sold the gun, and the rate of successful traces has declined since the start of Project Gunrunner.
noLabel	Vladimir Lenin, in Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism (1916), modified classic Marxist theory and argued that capitalism necessarily induced monopoly capitalism&mdash;which he also called "imperialism"&mdash;to find new markets and resources, representing the last and highest stage of capitalism .	Some 20th century Marxian economists consider capitalism to be a social formation where capitalist class processes dominate, but are not exclusive . 
noLabel	|- Mauritania, one of only three Arab League countries that enjoys full diplomatic ties with Israel, has suspended its relations with Israel in protest over the Gaza offensive.	The ambassador of Mauritania to Israel was recalled, and the Israeli embassy in Mauritania was shut down .On January 16, Mauritania suspended economic and diplomatic ties with Israel .
noLabel	In the Dartmouth College example of a college as a stand-alone institution, a college focusing on the undergraduate mission is the prevailing but distinct identity of what is arguably a university when the collective of college and schools are considered.	In the Carleton College example, the purest example of the USA's use of the term college is displayed in two ways:
noLabel	On October 15, 1965, David J. Miller burned his draft card at a rally held near the Armed Forces Induction Center on Whitehall Street in Manhattan.	He spoke briefly to the crowd from atop a sound truck and then tried but failed to burn his card with matches—the wind kept blowing them out.
noLabel	President Barack Obama has reviewed Homeland Security policy and concluded that "attacks using improvised nuclear devices .. pose a serious and increasing national security risk" .	In their presidential contest, President George W. Bush and Senator John Kerry both agreed that the most serious danger facing the United States is the possibility that terrorists could obtain a nuclear bomb .
noLabel	In the early 2000s, mobile games had gained mainstream popularity in Japan's mobile phone culture, years before the United States or Europe.	By 2003, a wide variety of mobile games were available on Japanese phones, ranging from puzzle games and virtual pet titles that utilize camera phone and fingerprint scanner technologies to 3D games with PlayStation-quality graphics.
noLabel	For people renting their accommodation, unemployment benefits are supplemented by Rent Assistance, which, for single people as at the 12th January, 2010, begins to be paid when the weekly rent is more than A$49.70.	Rent Assistance is paid as a proportion of total rent paid (to be precise, 75 cents in the dollar over $49.70 up to the maximum).
noLabel	An analysis by the Republican Movement of the 2010 Budget shows the office of Governor-General costs New Zealand taxpayers about $7.6 million in ongoing costs and $11 million for Government House upgrades, a total of $18.6 million .	These figures are disputed by Monarchy New Zealand, who claim the Republican Movement "arbitrarily inflated the cost of the Governor-General" .
noLabel	In spite of these criticisms, federal government support has made abstinence the de facto focus of sex education in the United States, so that opponents frequently adopt the line that abstinence education is acceptable only if it is combined with other methods, such as instruction in the use of condoms, and easy availability thereof.	Most nations of Western Europe use more comprehensive measures, and in sharp contrast to the heated discussion in the U.S., abstinence is hardly discussed as an educational measure. 
noLabel	Although it is not explicitly protected in the First Amendment, the Supreme Court ruled, in NAACP v. Alabama, , freedom of association to be a fundamental right protected by it.	In Roberts v. United States Jaycees, , the Supreme Court held that associations may not exclude people for reasons unrelated to the group's expression.
noLabel	Through wars, massacres, forced displacement (such as in the Trail of Tears), and the imposition of treaties, land was taken and numerous hardships imposed.	In 1540, the first racial strife was with Spaniard Hernando de Soto's expedition who enslaved and murdered in many New World communities.
noLabel	The most recent round of World Trade Organization negotiations (the Doha "Development" Round) was promoted as being directed at the interests of developing countries, addressing issues of developed country protectionism.	The introduction of the (investment-related) Singapore issues together with a lack of sufficient concessions to developing countries' interests has put the success of the negotiations in doubt.
noLabel	Cultural diversity is tricky to quantify, but a good indication is thought to be a count of the number of languages spoken in a region or in the world as a whole.	By this measure, there are 4 signs that we may be going through a period of precipitous decline in the world's cultural diversity.
noLabel	In competitive and professional bodybuilding, bodybuilders display their physiques to a panel of judges, who assign points based on their appearance.	Bodybuilders prepare for competition through a combination of fat loss, oils, and tanning (or tanning lotions) which combined with lighting make the definition of the muscle group more distinct. 
noLabel	This may be compared to the jurisprudence of the United States Supreme Court, which has also adopted a somewhat broad interpretation of the right to privacy.	Furthermore, Article 8 sometimes comprises positive obligations: whereas classical human rights are formulated as prohibiting a State from interfering with rights, and thus not to do something (e.g.
noLabel	Brazilian beef was more competitive on the world market at a time when extensive improvements in the road network in the Amazonas in the early 1970s through the Trans Amazonian highway and subsequent other new roads gave potential developers access to vast areas of previously inaccessible parts of the forest.	This coincided with the reduction of transportation costs through cheaper fuels such as ethanol which lowered the costs of shipping the beef from denser areas of the forest giving ranchers an incentive to maximise profits. 
noLabel	Although the Sikh code of conduct does not deal directly with abortion (or indeed many other bioethical issues), it is generally forbidden in Sikhism because it is said to interfere with the creative work of God .	Despite this theoretical viewpoint, abortion is not uncommon among the Sikh community in India, and there is growing concern that female fetuses are being aborted because of the cultural preference for sons .
noLabel	" Outside experts note that the parts of the report made public lack many dates associated with Iran's alleged activities meaning it is possible Iran had a Project 110 at one time, but scrapped it as US intelligence insists .	The Washington Post reports that "nowhere are there construction orders, payment invoices, or more than a handful of names and locations possibly connected to the projects.
noLabel	In 2001, John Lott and John Whitley argued that Donohue and Levitt assume that states which completely legalized abortion had higher abortion rates than states where abortion was only legal under certain conditions (many states allowed abortion only under certain conditions prior to Roe) and that CDC statistics do not substantiate this claim.	In addition, if abortion rates cause crime rates to fall, crime rates should start to fall among the youngest people first and then gradually be seen lowering the crime rate for older and older people.
noLabel	Industrial unionists observe that craft union members are more often required by their contracts to cross the picket lines established by workers in other unions.	Likewise, in a strike of (for example) coal miners, unionized railroad workers may be required by their contracts to haul "scab" coal. 
noLabel	One desirable feature that can be explored in this way is maximum voter satisfaction, called in this context minimum Bayesian regret.	Such simulations are sensitive to their assumptions, particularly with regard to voter strategy, but by varying the assumptions they can give repeatable measures that bracket the best and worst cases for a voting system .
noLabel	Situational crime prevention has been defined as "the use of measures directed at highly specific forms of crime, which involve the management, design or manipulation of the immediate environment in as systematic and permanent a way as possible" (Clarke & Hough: 1980).	It is sometimes referred to as "primary prevention" or "opportunity reduction" and it seems most relevant to offences which cluster in time or space, and are high rate, creating crime "hot spots".
noLabel	The Pope had said throughout his pontificate that one of his greatest dreams was to visit Russia, but this never occurred.	He attempted to solve the problems that had arisen over centuries between the Catholic and Russian Orthodox churches, and in 2004 gave them a 1730 copy of the lost icon of Our Lady of Kazan.
noLabel	'Indirect abortion,' by which Catholic jurists mean a particular procedure in the case of ectopic pregnancy where the death of the fetus is said to be a secondary effect of the procedure, may be permissible.	Catholics who procure abortion are considered to be automatically excommunicated, as per Canon 1398 of the Latin Rite Code of Canon Law or Canon 1450 §2 of the Code of Canons of the Eastern Churches. 
noLabel	Another criticism is that lotteries, particularly those involving large sums, suggest that capitalist social systems do not possess meritocracy as their main attribute but rather are dominated by other factors, such as luck.	For instance, one could be lucky to be born into wealth and one could be lucky to win a large sum in a lottery.
noLabel	Following the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and progressing through the Cold War, the term came to refer more to non-conventional weapons.	The application of the term to specifically nuclear and radiological weapons is traced by William Safire to the Russian phrase "Оружие массового поражения" – oruzhiye massovogo porazheniya (weapons of mass destruction). 
noLabel	The Christmas holidays were a bit too short - by the time you've done things with your family it's nearly over.	We started back at school four days after new year, when we've been up until 3am or 4am, so it was hard to get into the routine of waking up at 7am again.
noLabel	The notion that a person who sought sanctuary in a holy place could not be harmed without inviting divine retribution was familiar to the ancient Greeks and ancient Egyptians.	However,the right to seek asylum in a church or other holy place was first codified in law by King Ethelbert of Kent in about 600 A.D.
noLabel	[Nutt] It has also been argued that Western RPGs tend to focus more on the underlying rules governing the battle system rather than on the experience itself, and that Western RPGs as a whole are generally not as finely tuned and polished as their Japanese counterparts .	[Nutt] Lastly, Tom Battey of Edge Magazine noted that the problems often cited against Japanese RPGs (mentioned above) also often apply to many Western RPGs as well as games outside of the RPG genre . 
noLabel	 On behalf of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), Pakistani Ambassador Zamir Akram welcomed the fact-finding mission and thanked them for presenting a comprehensive and objective account.	Discussing responding to allegations of war crimes, he said that "it was now the time for action; words needed to be converted into deeds" .
noLabel	If the out-fighter represents everything classy about boxing, the brawler (also known as the 'slugger', 'hard hitter' or 'one puncher') often stands for everything that's brutal in the sport.	 Sluggers tend to lack finesse in the ring, but make up for it in raw power, often able to knock almost any opponent out with a single punch.
noLabel	However, John Paul also said, “It is not right then to regard the moral conscience of the individual and the magisterium of the Church as two contenders, as two realities in conflict.	The authority which the magisterium enjoys by the will of Christ exists so that the moral conscience can attain the truth with security and remain in it.” John Paul quoted Humanae Vitae as a compassionate encyclical, "Christ has come not to judge the world but to save it, and while he was uncompromisingly stern towards sin, he was patient and rich in mercy towards sinners" .
noLabel	However, the city spent an additional $1.3&nbsp;million because of an eminent domain lawsuit caused by the failure to obtain clear title to the property before beginning construction .	The city's long-term debt grew from about $1 million to $25 million due to $15 million for the sports complex, $5.5 million for street projects, and $3 million for water improvement projects.
noLabel	During both the primary process and the general election, Obama's campaign set numerous fundraising records, particularly in the quantity of small donations .	On June 19, 2008, Obama became the first major-party presidential candidate to turn down public financing in the general election since the system was created in 1976 . 
noLabel	Students spend 20 to 24 hours with an instructor during each course, compared with about 40 hours at a traditional university.	The university also requires students to collaborate by working on learning team projects, wherein the class will be divided into learning teams of four to five students.
noLabel	In 1999 a reporter for the San Jose Mercury News reported that the U.S. W88 nuclear warhead, a small MIRVed warhead used on the Trident II SLBM, had a prolate (egg or watermelon shaped) primary (code-named Komodo) and a spherical secondary (code-named Cursa) inside a specially shaped radiation case (known as the "peanut" for its shape) .	A story four months later in The New York Times by William Broad reported that in 1995, a supposed double agent from the People's Republic of China delivered information indicating that China knew these details about the W88 warhead, supposedly through espionage .
noLabel	[4] Austerity however is not popular and the results of the recent elections are threatening this treaty and its ambitious goals.	This debate discusses whether Europe needs to stick to stringent austerity measures such as those that will be needed to meet the compact or should states put the social support of their citizens first.
noLabel	In addition, the 45th session of the ITTO Council held in November 2009, recommended that efforts relating REDD+ should focus on promoting “sustainable forest management”.	In this regard, this sector’s lobbying seeks above all to include forest extraction inside REDD under the guise of “sustainable management” in order to benefit from carbon markets while maintaining business-as-usual . 
noLabel	In Scotland, while they may have different names, all Secondary schools are the same, except in that they may be funded by the state, or independently funded (see next paragraph).	It is unclear if "Academies", which are a hybrid between state and independently funded/controlled schools and have been introduced to England in recent years, will ever be introduced to Scotland.
noLabel	The term lobby has etymological roots in the physical structure of the British Parliament, in which there was an intermediary covered room outside the main hall.	People pushing an agenda would try to meet with members of Parliament in this room, and they came to be known, by metonymy, as lobbyists, although one account in 1890 suggested that the application of the word "lobby" is American and that the term is not used as much in Britain . 
noLabel	The term "high policing" refers to the fact that such policing benefits the "higher" interests of the government rather than individual citizens or the mass population.	It also refers to the fact that high-policing organizations are endowed with authority and legal powers superior to that of other types of police organizations. 
noLabel	In an interview with the Jewish Forward, published on 7 October 2009, Goldstone emphasized that his task was to conduct a "fact-finding mission" and not an "investigation."	He acknowledged the reliance on Palestinian (Gazan and Hamas) testimonies, noting his mission cross-checked those accounts against each other and sought corroboration from photos, satellite photos, contemporaneous reports, forensic evidence and the mission’s own inspections of the sites in question.
noLabel	Platform games: Space Panic (1980) is sometimes credited as the first platform game, with gameplay centered on climbing ladders between different floors.	Donkey Kong (1981), an arcade game created by Nintendo's Shigeru Miyamoto, was the first game that allowed players to jump over obstacles and across gaps, making it the first true platformer .
noLabel	In dicta, the Court listed many longstanding prohibitions and restrictions on firearms possession as being consistent with the Second Amendment .	In McDonald v. Chicago (2010), the Court ruled that the Second Amendment limits state and local governments to the same extent that it limits the federal government .
noLabel	In response to the outcry following popular knowledge of the Holocaust, the newly-established United Nations held an international conference on refugees, where it was decided that refugees (legally defined to be people who are persecuted in their original country and then enter another country seeking safety) should be exempted from immigration laws .	It is, however, up to the countries involved to decide if a particular immigrant is a refugee or not, and hence whether they are subject to the immigration controls. 
noLabel	Through the development of clearinghouses, the UNAOC serves as a platform for disseminating materials that resonate with its objectives of improving understanding among nations and peoples.	Launched in April 2009, the  encompasses learning about the world's diverse religions and beliefs as well as ethics, tolerance, and civic education.
noLabel	The inquiry was charged with investigating the legality of the Gaza blockade, the legality of the Israeli Navy's actions during the raid, and determining whether investigations of claims of war crimes and breaches of international law conformed to Western standards.	The Committee was also charged with investigating the Turkish position, and the actions taken by flotilla participants, especially the IHH, and examining the identities and intentions of the flotilla's participants. 
noLabel	While core immigration benefits functions remain the same as under the INS, a new goal is to process applications efficiently and effectively.	Improvement efforts have included attempts to reduce the applicant backlog, as well as providing customer service through different channels, including the National Customer Service Center (NCSC) with information in English and Spanish, Application Support Centers (ASCs), the Internet and other channels. 
noLabel	In the United States in the years 1959 through 1966, bans on three books with explicit erotic content were challenged and overturned.	This also occurred in the United Kingdom starting with the 1959 Obscene Publications Act and reaching a peak with the LCL court case. 
noLabel	Small, two-man portable, or truck-portable, tactical weapons (sometimes misleadingly referred to as suitcase nukes), such as the Special Atomic Demolition Munition and the Davy Crockett recoilless rifle, have been developed, although the difficulty of combining sufficient yield with portability could limit their military utility.	In wartime, such explosives could be used for demolishing "choke-points" to enemy offensives, such as at tunnels, narrow mountain passes, and long viaducts.
noLabel	At the end of World War I, the destructive effects of the war and the surrender burdens enforced on the Central Powers of Europe bankrupted much of Europe, closing major export markets in the United States and beginning a series of events that would lead to the development of agricultural price and income support policies.	United States price and income support, known otherwise as agricultural subsidy, grew out of acute farm income and financial crises, which led to widespread political beliefs that the market system was not adequately rewarding farm people for their agricultural commodities. 
noLabel	In Germany, most higher education institutions are public and operated by the states and all lecturers and professors are public servants.	From 1972 through 2006, public universities were free of tuition fees; however, since then some states have adopted low tuition fees. 
noLabel	She also noted that the U.S. itself blockaded Cuba during the Cuban Missile Crisis, and also commented that in the wars in Yugoslavia, the U.N. itself, and NATO, through Operation Sharp Guard, imposed a blockade on shipments to Yugoslavia .	Roche also indicated that under the law of a blockade, a ship can be intercepted on the high seas as long as it is bound for the blockaded territory .
noLabel	Former and current smokers have a lower incidence of Parkinson's disease compared to people who have never smoked, although the authors stated that it was more likely that the movement disorders which are part of Parkinson's disease prevented people from being able to smoke than that smoking itself was protective.	Another study considered a possible role of nicotine in reducing Parkinson's risk: nicotine stimulates the dopaminergic system of the brain, which is damaged in Parkinson's disease, while other compounds in tobacco smoke inhibit MAO-B, an enzyme which produces oxidative radicals by breaking down dopamine . 
noLabel	Jehovah's Witnesses teach that God has tolerated evil since the Garden of Eden in order to establish evidence that Jehovah's "right to rule" is both correct and in the best interests of all intelligent beings, and to give individual humans the opportunity despite adversity to demonstrate their willingness or lack of willingness to submit to God's rulership (that is, to God's "universal sovereignty").	They contend that God could have justly executed Satan, Adam and Eve, but that would only have demonstrated God's power and would not actually have settled the issue raised: the "issue of universal sovereignty" implied by Satan's claim that "your eyes will be opened" upon disobeying God . 
noLabel	Some opponents of Warren’s view believe that what matters morally is not that one be actually exhibiting complex mental qualities of the sort she identifies, but rather that one have in oneself a self-directed genetic propensity or natural capacity to develop such qualities.	In other words, what is crucial is that one be the kind of entity or substance that, under the right conditions, actively develops itself to the point of exhibiting Warren's qualities at some point in its life, even if it does not actually exhibit them because of not having developed them yet (embryo, infant) or having lost them (severe Alzheimer's).
noLabel	In 1985, the INS launched a 10-month investigation dubbed Operation Sojourner, sending paid informants into sanctuary communities to gain the trust of members, find information and report back to federal officials.	In 1985, the government initiated criminal prosecutions against two activists in the Rio Grande Valley—Catholic layman Jack Elder and Methodist Stacey Merkt, both of whom provided sanctuary to Central Americans at Casa Oscar Romero in Brownsville, Texas . 
noLabel	In recent years there have been concerns about North Korea's nuclear tests and Iran's refusal to stop its program to enrich uranium, potentially to weapons grade.	The world is now in a new and dangerous nuclear era, and the likelihood that non-state terrorists will get their hands on nuclear weaponry is increasing.
noLabel	In hydro energy, the gravitational descent of a river is compressed from a long run to a single location with a dam or a flume.	This creates a location where concentrated pressure and flow can be used to turn turbines or water wheels, which drive a mechanical mill or an electric generator . 
noLabel	The book was entitled "Safe Sex in the Age of AIDS", it had 88 pages and it described both positive and negative approaches to the sexual life.	Sexual behavior could be either safe (kissing, hugging, massage, body-to-body rubbing, mutual masturbation, exhibitionism and voyeurism, telephone sex, sado-masochism without bruising or bleeding, and use of separate sex toys); possibly safe (use of condoms); and unsafe . 
noLabel	According to one analyst, the controversy over the cartoons has resulted in bridging some of the divides that both sides of the "West vs Jihadist" conflict have historically exploited: The rift between the United States and Europe on one side, and the rift between Sunnis and Shiites on the other side.	According to this view, the reaction of the Muslims to the cartoons unifies the factions on either side of the global conflict . 
noLabel	As a result, there has been significant criticism regarding the revenue distribution by bowls, specifically the BCS due to its significantly higher payout to participating teams.	This disparity coupled with the comparative difficulty for non-BCS teams to participate in BCS bowls, compounded by the uneven split even for non-BCS teams competing in a BCS bowl, have raised calls for further reform in the revenue distribution structure.
noLabel	Borovoy also noted that under Section 13(1), "Intent is not a requirement, and truth and reasonable belief in the truth is no defence.	" He has said that when he and other human rights activists advocated the creation of human rights commissions they "never imagined that they might ultimately be used against freedom of speech"  and that censorship was not the role he had envisioned for the commissions . 
noLabel	Instead, theories of white privilege suggest that whites view their social, cultural, and economic experiences as a norm that everyone should experience, rather than as an advantaged position that must be maintained at the expense of others.	This normative assumption implicitly constrains discussions of racial inequality within the dominant discourse: such explanations are limited to factors specific to disadvantaged racial groups - who are viewed as having failed to achieve the norm - and solutions focus on what can be done to help those groups achieve the 'normal' standards experienced by whites. 
noLabel	Deviance is not a quality of the act the person commits, but rather a consequence of the application by others of rules and sanctions to an "offender".	The deviant is one to whom the label has successfully been applied; deviant behavior is behavior that people so label . 
noLabel	In early March 2006, India and the United States finalized an agreement, in the face of criticism in both countries, to provide India with US civilian nuclear technology.	Under the deal India has committed to classify 14 of its 22 nuclear power plants as being for civilian use and to place them under IAEA safeguards.
noLabel	Critics of copyright as a whole fall broadly into two categories: Those who assert that the very concept of copyright has never benefited society, and has always served simply to enrich a few at the expense of creativity; and those who assert that the existing copyright regime must be reformed to maintain its relevance in the new Information society.	The French droit d'auteur ("Rights of the Author"), which influenced the 1886 Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, must also be noted as a significant alternative to the usual Anglo-Saxon concept of copyright. 
noLabel	The controls are almost always negative, which means that the labs have been making serious mistakes, mistakes that have only served to speed up the growth of this evil.	The controls we developed after Simpson's death were a lie, covered up by the highest scientific and medical authorities, and I condemn them .
noLabel	The effective prohibition on nuclear proliferation has been characterised as a form of technological apartheid, as only a select few states (particularly the member-nations of the United Nations Security Council) are able to acquire nuclear technology and that they can use their power to prevent other states from research and development of nuclear technology.	In theory, only states that are allied with states that already have nuclear power would be able to acquire nuclear technology themselves.
noLabel	The Normal stream is a four-year course leading up to a Singapore-Cambridge GCE "Normal" - "N" level examination, with the possibility of a 5th year followed by a Singapore-Cambridge GCE "Ordinary" - "O" level examination.	It is split into "Normal (Academic)" and "Normal (Technical)" where in the latter students take subjects that are technical in nature, such as Design and Technology. 
noLabel	As the single largest emitter of carbon dioxide in the United States, the electric-power industry accounted for 39% of CO2 emissions in 2004, a 27% increase since 1990 .	Because the cost of reducing emissions in the electricity sector appears to be lower than in other sectors such as transportation, the electricity sector may deliver the largest proportional carbon reductions under an economically efficient climate policy . 
noLabel	On October 19, ten ambassadors from Islamic countries, including Algeria, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Morocco, Pakistan, Libya, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey, as well as the head of the Palestinian delegation in Denmark, sent a letter to Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen requesting a meeting and asking him to distance himself from hate speech, including remarks by MP Louise Frevert, Culture Minister of Denmark Brian Mikkelsen, and the Radio Holger station .	Rasmussen declined, saying that the government could not interfere with the right to free speech, but said that cases of blasphemy and discrimination could be tried before the courts, a reaction essentially seen as a snub by the Muslims . 
noLabel	Circumcision has been judged to be a cost-effective method to reduce the spread of HIV in a population, though not necessarily more cost-effective than condoms .	Some have challenged the validity of the African randomized controlled trials, prompting a number of researchers to question the effectiveness of circumcision as an HIV prevention strategy . 
noLabel	Often a lack of understanding of the process by those meant to be receiving aid leads to cynicism and belief that greed and corruption are the key failures.	Non-governmental organizations have in recent years made great efforts to increase participation, accountability and transparency, humanitarian assistance remains a poorly understood process to those meant to be receiving it - much greater investment needs to be made into researching and investing in relevant and effective accountability systems .
noLabel	The history of video games goes as far back as the 1940s, when in 1947 Thomas T. Goldsmith, Jr. and Estle Ray Mann filed a United States patent request for an invention they described as a "cathode ray tube amusement device."	Video gaming would not reach mainstream popularity until the 1970s and 80s, when arcade video games, gaming consoles and home computer games were introduced to the general public.
noLabel	New peoples in the Americas, possible slaves, were encountered, fought, and ultimately subdued, but, then, due to European diseases, their populations drastically decreased.	Through both influences, theories about "race" developed, and these helped many to justify the differences in position and treatment of people whom they categorized as belonging to different races (see Eric Wolf's Europe and the People without History). 
noLabel	Many pro-Israeli rallies took place within the country, including by Sderot residents, in Qiryat Shmona and student rallies in the Technion, University of Haifa, Ben Gurion University, Hebrew University of Jerusalem and Tel Aviv University.	The rallies included hundreds of demonstrators waving the flag of Israel and chanting slogans in support of the IDF and Shayetet 13 .
noLabel	Losing the AAA rating would likely mean higher interest rates and the sale of treasury bonds by entities required to hold AAA securities .	The S&P press release stated: "We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policymakers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium- and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013; if an agreement is not reached and meaningful implementation is not begun by then, this would in our view render the U.S. fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than that of peer 'AAA' sovereigns.
noLabel	These outcomes represent an increase in the investment of human capital, thus becoming a very important tool for reducing the inter-generational transmission of inequality.	However, studies by the UNDP have shown that conditional cash transfers did not represent a significant increase in the quality of education and in learning, nor in significant increases in salaries, once the recipients entered the labor force . 
noLabel	Ethnic cleansing is similar to forced deportation or 'population transfer' whereas genocide is the "intentional murder of part or all of a particular ethnic, religious, or national group.	" The idea in ethnic cleansing is "to get people to move, and the means used to this end range from the legal to the semi-legal.
noLabel	The Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 was passed by the U.S. Senate and signed into law by President Bill Clinton on December 15, 1995 .	Under a revision done on January 1, 2006, the Act state that any lobbying entity must be registered with the Secretary of the Senate and the Clerk of the House of Representatives.
noLabel	All of these ideas lend themselves to a possible hypothesis that they all eliminate the potential for social isolation on the Internet.	Further research is needed to test that hypothesis, but if proven, it will show that the spiral of silence cannot exist within the medium of the Internet.
noLabel	The term "Developmental Dyslexia" is often used as a synonym for reading disability; however, many researchers assert that there are different types of reading disabilities, of which dyslexia is one.	A reading disability can affect any part of the reading process, including difficulty with accurate or fluent word recognition, or both, word decoding, reading rate, prosody (oral reading with expression), and reading comprehension.
noLabel	Two professors, Moshe Halbertal and Avi Sagi, called for further investigation of incidents of Israeli troops opening fire on civilians carrying white flags, the destruction of homes in the final days of the operation and the destruction of power stations and water facilities .	Former Israeli Supreme Court President Aharon Barak advised the Attorney General to establish a state committee endowed with investigative and subpoena powers to look into the claims raised by the Goldstone report .
noLabel	In June 2007 the PlayStation 3 game Resistance: Fall of Man was criticized for the use of Manchester cathedral as one of the games' backdrops.	Sony, the publisher of the game, responded by saying "Sony Computer Entertainment Europe is aware of the concerns expressed by the Bishop of Manchester and the cathedral authorities.. and we naturally take the concerns very seriously.
noLabel	Others point out that requiring candidates to campaign in every state simultaneously would exacerbate the purported problem of campaigns being dominated by the candidates who raise the most money.	The following proposals attempt to return the primary system to a more relaxed schedule, and would help less-funded candidates by lowering the cost of entry.
noLabel	Why is pedophilia wrong?” and that if people believe they can get away with committing bad deeds then they will tend to do them.	Dawkins responds to this claim by asking Hawkes if the only reason he doesn't do these things is that he's frightened of God and subsequently suggests that this attitude is characteristic of the warped morality that religion tends to instill in people.
noLabel	When marketing cigarettes to the developing world, tobacco companies use the Western lifestyle as a mechanism to lure this demographic into purchasing their products .	As individuals of the developing world buy into this myth of attaining a successful Western lifestyle through cigarettes, they ignore the health risks associated with it .
noLabel	It is a relatively straightforward task for legislators to ban blatant efforts to favor one group over another and encourage equality of opportunity as a result.	Japan banned gender-specific job descriptions in advertising as well as sexual discrimination in employment as well as other practices deemed unfair, although a subsequent report suggested that the law was having minimal effect in securing Japanese women high positions in management .
noLabel	The Garnaut Climate Change Review, the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme and the Mandatory Renewable energy Target announced by the Australian Government involve a reduction in Australian greenhouse gas emissions.	Australia is the highest emitter of greenhouse gases per capita in the developed world and wind power is well placed to grow and deliver greenhouse gas emission cuts on a cost competitive basis.
noLabel	I think it sets a bad example for children and for people of all ages who try their hardest to be the best they can be without the help of drugs.	She speaks with her son about performance-enhancing drugs, Nudo said, explaining to him how that's not the healthy way to do it and that's not the fair way to do it.
noLabel	The concept of ingesting substances in the form of smoke was also entirely new and was met with both astonishment and great skepticism by Europeans.	The debate raged among priests, scientists and laymen whether tobacco was a bane or boon and both sides had powerful supporters.
noLabel	Since the turn of the 19th century, education in the United States has been geared toward producing citizens who can effectively contribute to a capitalistic society, with a cultural premium on efficiency and science .	More agrarian cultures, for example, don’t even use learning ability as a measure of adult adequacy, whereas learning disabilities are prevalent in Western capitalistic societies because of the high value placed on speed, literacy, and numeracy in both the labor force and school system .
noLabel	The case received extensive attention in the Japanese media, especially in Okinawa, and the crime sparked a public debate over the U.S. military presence in Japan, the privileges of extraterritoriality, as well as the fair trial practices of Japanese legal system and the Japanese police.	The case involved the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security between the United States and Japan and the U.S.–Japan Status of Forces Agreement (SOFA). 
noLabel	The 1971 to 1990 period shows the inverse of the expected relationship between income inequality and changes in crime rates (1st derivative of crime rates), primarily due to the lag in crime rates decreasing and after income inequality began to decrease.	The 1990 to 2001 and 2001 to 2007 periods show a positive correlation between increasing income inequality, for the compared groups, and increasing change in crime rates (1st derivative of crime rates).
noLabel	High temperature electrolysis and high pressure electrolysis are two techniques by which the efficiency of hydrogen production may able to be increased.	Hydrogen is then be converted back to electricity in an internal combustion engine, or a fuel cell which convert chemical energy into electricity without combustion, similar to the way the human body burns fuel. 
noLabel	In April 2011, the founders of PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker, and Absolute Poker, the three largest Internet poker companies that then accepted U.S. players, were among those indicted for in charges that including violations of the UIGEA.	According to the United States Attorney in New York, the companies allegedly tried to circumvent UIGEA rules with the help of others who acted as "payment processors" by helped disguise gambling revenue as payments for non-existent goods such as jewelry or golf balls .
noLabel	Recent developments related to BitTorrent and peer-to-peer file-sharing have been termed by media commentators as "copyright wars", with The Pirate Bay being referred to as "the most visible member of a burgeoning international anti-copyright—or pro-piracy—movement" .	One well-publicized instance of electronic civil disobedience (ECD) in the form of large scale intentional copyright infringement occurred on February 24, 2004, in an event called Grey Tuesday.
noLabel	The decision further compared video games to classical works like The Divine Comedy, stating that "Even if we can see in them nothing of any possible value to society[..], they are as much entitled to the protection of free speech as the best of literature.	" Scalia's decision also stated that the current self-moderated industry standards like the ESRB are operated effectively to regulate the sale of more mature games to minors, and that "filling the remaining modest gap in concerned-parents' control can hardly be a compelling state interest" requiring a law to enforce .
noLabel	In some countries, women at one time competed on the rings, high bar, and parallel bars (for example, in the 1950s in the USSR).	Though routines performed on each event may be short, they are physically exhausting and push the gymnast's strength, flexibility, endurance and awareness to the limit. 
noLabel	They state that it is important to concentrate on the main risk factors: poor hygiene, having unprotected sex with multiple partners, and cigarette smoking .	They also state that the current consensus of most experts is that circumcision should not be recommended as a prevention strategy for penile cancer .
noLabel	He maintains that the standard of human life will worsen if resources are consumed by a growing population rather than spent solving existing issues.	He speculates that if people ceased to reproduce, they would use their energy for other pursuits, such as gardening, and suggests adoption and foster care as outlets for people who desire children . 
noLabel	It prohibits federal contractors and subcontractors from discriminating against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, skin color, religion, gender, or national origin.	The order requires that contractors take affirmative action to ensure that "protected class, underutilized applicants" are employed when available, and that employees are treated without negative discriminatory regard to their protected-class status. 
noLabel	As of 2007, cigars were taxed far less than cigarettes, so much so that in many U.S. states, a pack of little cigars cost less than half as much as a pack of cigarettes .	It is illegal for minors to purchase cigars and other tobacco products in the U.S., but laws are unevenly enforced: a 2000 study found that three-quarters of Internet cigar marketing sites allowed minors to purchase cigars . 
noLabel	In England the division was reflected in, and for a long time reinforced by, the series of Gentlemen v Players matches between amateurs and professionals.	Few cricketers changed their status, but there were some notable exceptions such as Wally Hammond who became (or was allowed to become) an amateur in 1938 so that he could captain England. 
noLabel	However, Thomas Aquinas also stated that the ideal monarchical system would also have at lower levels of government both an aristocracy and elements of democracy in order to created a balance of power.	The monarch would also be subject to both natural and divine law, as well, and also be subject to the Church in matters of religion. 
noLabel	Objections to a potentially remote federal judiciary would be reconciled with 13 federal courts (11 states, Maine and Kentucky), and three Federal riding circuits out of the Supreme Court: Eastern, Middle and South .	Suspicion of a powerful federal executive was answered by Washington’s cabinet appointments of once-Anti-Federalists Edmund Jennings Randolph as Attorney General and Thomas Jefferson as Secretary of State . 
noLabel	If "hate speech" is taken to mean ethnic agitation, it is prohibited in Finland and defined in the section 11 of the penal code, War crimes and crimes against humanity, as publishing data, an opinion or other statement that threatens or insults a group on basis of race, nationality, ethnicity, religion or conviction, sexual orientation, disability, or any comparable basis.	Ethnic agitation is punishable with a fine or up to 2 years in prison, or 4 months to 4 years if aggravated (such as incitement to genocide) . 
noLabel	In response Rep. Mica (R-FL), spoke in opposition responding "Well congratulations my colleagues welcome to the era of smoke and mirrors and that's exactly what this motion to recommit is and I urge its defeat.	And you heard the gentleman describing bridges and he again is trying to mislead the entire house on this particular motion to recommit.
noLabel	According to the IAF, 80% of the bombs used by the IAF were precision weapons, and 99% of the air strikes hit their targets .	A study by the Center for Strategic and International Studies points out that when possible, IAF executed strikes using the smallest precision-guided weapons, and coordinated air strikes and the use of artillery weapons using GPS, in a systematic effort to limit collateral damage .
noLabel	Besides wind energy, the PTC also covers closed loop biomass, geothermal power, and half the rate for open loop biomass, hydropower, landfill gas, and municipal solid waste .	The PTC provides a 2.1 cent per kilowatt-hour benefit for the first ten years of a renewable energy facility's operation .
noLabel	In a study of 379 pregnant or parenting teens and 95 teenage girls without children, 62% of the girls aged 11–15 years and 56% of girls aged 16–19 years reported experiencing domestic violence at the hands of their partners.	Moreover, 51% of the girls reported experiencing at least one instance where their boyfriend attempted to sabotage their efforts to use birth control .
noLabel	One of the conditions that this revision specified was the amount of ethnic programming needed in order to be awarded the ethnic broadcasting license.	According to the act, 60% of programming on a channel, whether on the radio or television, has to be considered ethnic in order to be approved for the license under this policy .
noLabel	Any proposed action will have social importance to an individual both because it relates to the objective situation within which the subject has to act, and because it has been shaped by attitudes formed through a lifetime of social and cultural experiences.	This is based on the "four wishes" of the Thomas theorem, viz., "If men define situations as real, they are real in their consequences".
noLabel	The £15b cost is the cost of connecting offshore wind farms by cables typically less than 12&nbsp;km in length, to the UK's nearest suitable onshore connection point.	There are total forecast onshore transmission costs of connecting various new UK generators by 2020, as incurred from 2010, of £4.7 billion, by comparison. 
noLabel	Some groups of hunter-gatherers have exploited rainforest on a seasonal basis but dwelt primarily in adjacent savanna and open forest environments where food is much more abundant.	Other peoples described as rainforest dwellers are hunter-gatherers who subsist in large part by trading high value forest products such as hides, feathers, and honey with agricultural people living outside the forest .
noLabel	However, this overlooks those parts of scripture which provide for the doctrine of the "Two Swords" and for the medieval Roman Catholic concept of the powers of kings to protect the Christian Constitution of states, to defend and extend the boundaries of Christendom by lawful means only, to protect and defend the innocent, the weak, the poor and the vulnerable, and to protect the church and the papacy with the king's own life, if necessary.	The emperor was the first knight of Christendom, and the other Christian kings were his brother-knights sworn to Christian chivalry with its devotion to justice and charity. 
noLabel	The 603rd Air Engineering Squadron was unique in that it provided depot-level B-29 maintenance in the field, obviating the necessity of sending aircraft back to the United States for major repairs.	The 603rd made a number of modifications to the first contract order of Silverplate B-29s that were later incorporated as specifications for the combat models. 
noLabel	As of April 2006, there were 76 public universities, compared to 87 national and 571 private universities, and 127,872 students attended the schools.	The number of the public universities has increased sharply in recent years; in 1980 there were only 34 public universities and in 1993 there were 46.
noLabel	Batstone and Brown are non-executive directors; Batstone is the former marketing chief of the Economist Group and a trustee of Bedales, an independent secondary school, and Brown is the founder of Metier Management Systems .	The rest of the management team consists of Jane Phelps, director of external relations, currently head of higher education and careers at Rugby School, and Rosalind Barrs, the registrar, formerly a senior administrator in the philosophy department at Birkbeck . 
noLabel	Israeli blacksmith Yaron Bob, from the village of Yated, collects Palestinian rockets fired on his area and turns them into roses.	These roses have been given by the Sderot Municipality to visiting dignitaries, including United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon and United States Senator John Kerry.
noLabel	The document sets out the Pope's position on the case for worldwide redistribution of wealth in considerable detail and goes on to discuss the environment, migration, terrorism, sexual tourism, bioethics, energy and population issues.	The Financial Times has reported that the Pope's advocacy for a fairer redistribution of wealth has helped set the agenda for the 2009 July G8 summit .
noLabel	Active living is a growing field that emerged from the early work of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) with the release of the Surgeon's General Report on Physical Activity and Health in 1996 .	In 1997, the CDC began the development of an initiative called Active Community Environments (ACEs) coordinated by Rich Killingsworth (the founding director of active living by Design ) and Tom Schmid, a senior health scientist.
noLabel	There was also an instruction to Immigration Officers and general understanding that written entry conditions would only be recorded and stored in exceptional circumstances.	By 1965 new instructions had been issued which, although very liberal by later standards, encouraged control officers to impose conditions more often and to refuse people who had clearly obtained entry clearances by misrepresentation . 
noLabel	" In a 5–4 decision, the Court, relying on Stromberg v. California, , found that because the provision of the New York law criminalizing "words" against the flag was unconstitutional, and the trial did not sufficiently demonstrate that he was convicted solely under the provisions not yet deemed unconstitutional, the conviction was unconstitutional.	The Court, however, "resist[ed] the pulls to decide the constitutional issues involved in this case on a broader basis" and left the constitutionality of flag-burning unaddressed . 
noLabel	CPM takes information from the field related to pressures, flows, and temperatures to estimate the hydraulic behavior of the product being transported.	Once the estimation is done, the results are compared to other field references to detect the presence of an anomaly or unexpected situation, which may be related to a leak. 
noLabel	The  (originally known as Global Expert Finder) is a free online resource of opinion leaders who provide quick reactions and accurate analysis to journalists worldwide on complex political, social and religious issues and crises.	It was developed by the United Nations Alliance of Civilizations, and is supported by a network of partners from the media, academia, civil society and the international community, including the European Commission, the International Center for Journalists, Search for Common Ground, International Crisis Group, and the Global Forum for Media Development. 
noLabel	Professor of Economics at the California State Polytechnic University-San Luis Obispo, Michael L. Marlow, defended "tobacco-sponsored" studies arguing that all studies merited "scrutiny and a degree of skepticism," irrespective of their funding.	He wished for the basic assumption that every author were "fair minded and trustworthy, and deserves being heard out" and for less attention to research funding when evaluating the results of a study.
noLabel	If about 20% of the backers of the Republican candidate had insincerely raised the Democrat from their second choice to their first, the Republican would have dropped from first to third in first choices, and the Democrat would then have won the instant runoff .	But given that the Republican was a strong candidate who nearly won in the instant runoff, few of his backers would have risked giving up on his candidacy based on a chance, unknown before the fact, to elect the compromise Condorcet winner.
noLabel	Among the homeschooled students who took the tests, the average homeschooled student outperformed his public school peers by 30 to 37 percentile points across all subjects.	The study also indicates that public school performance gaps between minorities and genders were virtually non-existent among the homeschooled students who took the tests . 
noLabel	In another study conducted by Gene Takle and Julie Lundquist University of Colorado, presented at San Francisco conference of the American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting (December 13–18, 2010), the analysis carried out on corn and soybean crops in the central areas of the United States has noted that the microclimate generated by wind turbines improves crops as it prevents the spring and autumn frosts, and it reduces the action of pathogenic fungi that grow on the leaves.	Even at the height of summer heat, the lowering of 2.5-3 degrees above the crops due to turbulence caused by the blades, can make a difference for the cultivation of maize .
noLabel	The IAEA has been able to verify the non-diversion of declared nuclear material in Iran, and is continuing its work on verifying the absence of undeclared activities .	In February 2008, the IAEA also reported that it was working to address "alleged studies" of weaponization, based on documents provided by certain Member States, which those states claimed originated from Iran.
noLabel	The committee found no consensus on whether a new law against blasphemy was required, but concluded that if there was a law it should apply to all faiths .	Home Secretary David Blunkett responded with plans to criminalise incitement to religious hatred, which became the Racial and Religious Hatred Act 2006, and he suggested the blasphemy law might be repealed once the new law was in force .
noLabel	Opponents of the measure said, with justification, that the employers were being expected to take on the role of immigration officers.	The idea that there was a wider responsibility on both private and public organisations to check the status and rights of foreign nationals that they encountered was to be an emerging theme in future years but the reality did not match up to the expectations as the law was not robust enough to compel employers to seek out and keep adequate proof of entitlement to work.
noLabel	This is because it is sometimes necessary for a candidate who knows they are unlikely to win to ensure that another candidate he supports makes it to the second round by withdrawing from the race before the first round occurs, or by never choosing to stand in the first place.	By withdrawing candidates a political faction can avoid the 'spoiler effect', whereby a candidate 'splits the vote' of her supporters and prevents any candidate acceptable to them from surviving to the last round. 
noLabel	As for the role of history in national identity, the books of Pierre Berton and television series like Canada: A People's History have done much to spark the popular interest of Canadians in their history.	Some commentators, such as Cohen, criticize the overall lack of attention paid by Canadians to their own history, noting a disturbing trend to ignore the broad history in favour of narrow focus on specific regions or groups. 
noLabel	For example, in December 2006 the voluntary euthanasia book The Peaceful Pill Handbook was classified by the OFLC as X18+ and approved for publication.	A month later, on appeal from the Australian Attorney General Philip Ruddock and Right to Life NSW, the book’s classification was reviewed by the Literature Classification Board and rated RC (refused classification) . 
noLabel	The war culminated in the execution of the king in 1649, the overthrow of the monarchy, and the establishment of a republic known as the Commonwealth of England.	In 1653, Oliver Cromwell, the most prominent military and political leader in the nation, seized power and declared himself Lord Protector (effectively becoming a military dictator, but refusing the title of king).
noLabel	They considered it to be bad that there was no effective federal military crackdown to an armed tax rebellion in western Massachusetts known as Shays' Rebellion .	Anti-federalists on the other hand took the side of limited government and sympathized with the rebels, many of whom were former Revolutionary War soldiers.
noLabel	This definition does not make any difference between discrimination based on ethnicity and race, in part because the distinction between the two remains debatable among anthropologists .	Similarly, in British law the phrase racial group means "any group of people who are defined by reference to their race, colour, nationality (including citizenship) or ethnic or national origin" .
noLabel	The search for cyanide in the bricks of buildings said to be gas chambers was important, because the pesticide Zyklon B would generate such a residue.	This was the gas most often cited as the instrument of death for prisoners in the gas chambers, supported by both testimony and evidence collected of Nazi policy. 
noLabel	What we can infer from these results is that five years of extensive quality care for children beginning in infancy yields results that begin to close the gap between children of the rich and children of the poor, as earlier mentioned by Summers.	However, rather than providing that low-cost education in college, the care needs to be provided in early childhood to set a foundation for the value of education that will remain with the child throughout life.
noLabel	The Wakefield district council found itself unable to maintain its supply of council housing and transferred it all to a housing association, in 2004; this represented the second largest stock transfer in British history.	Housing rented from the council accounted for about 28% of the district and around 40% of the actual city of Wakefield. 
noLabel	While it has been shown that older persons are generally more mature, psychological maturity is not determined by one's age .	However, for legal purposes, people are not considered psychologically mature enough to perform certain tasks (such as driving, consenting to sex, signing a binding contract or making medical decisions) until they have reached a certain age.
noLabel	At its first session, held in Jordan in December 2006, the CoSP agreed that it was necessary to establish an appropriate and effective mechanism to assist in the review of the implementation of the Convention (Resolution 1/1).	The Conference established an open-ended intergovernmental expert group to make recommendations to the Conference on the appropriate mechanism, which should allow the Conference to discharge fully and efficiently its mandates, in particular with respect to taking stock of States’ efforts to implement the Convention.
noLabel	See also article on remigration (by Gürkan Çelik) in  An increasing number of Turks, the Netherlands’ largest ethnic minority, are beginning to return to Turkey, taking with them the education and skills they have acquired abroad, as the Netherlands faces challenges from economic difficulties, social tension and increasingly powerful far-right parties.	At the same time Turkey’s political, social and economic conditions have been improving, making returning home all the more appealing for Turks at large (pp.&nbsp;94–99).
noLabel	The United Kingdom Immigration Service, (previously known from 1920 to 1970 as the Immigration Branch), was the operational arm of the Home Office, Immigration and Nationality Directorate.	The UK Immigration Service was, until its disbandment in 2007, responsible for the day to day operation of front line UK Border Controls at 57 ports "designated" under the Immigration Act 1971 including airports, seaports, the UK land-border with Ireland and the Channel Tunnel juxtaposed controls.
noLabel	The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, partly in response to the atrocities of World War II.	Although the UDHR was a non-binding resolution, it is now considered by some to have acquired the force of international customary law which may be invoked in appropriate circumstances by national and other judiciaries .
noLabel	The LSC had a particular mission to improve and expand further education provision, driven by the UK government's desire to increase standards in post-16 student retention and achievement, particularly in skills-based vocational provision in FE colleges.	Recent government-driven LSC and Department for Children, Schools and Families policies, such as Success for All and the Skills Strategy, articulate this vision. 
noLabel	Family planning is the planning of when to have children, and the use of birth control and other techniques to implement such plans.	Other techniques commonly used include sexuality education, prevention and management of sexually transmitted infections, pre-conception counseling and management, and infertility management . 
noLabel	The Espionage Act limits on free speech were ruled constitutional in the United States Supreme Court case Schenck v. United States, 249 U.S. 47 in 1919.	Schenck, an anti-war Socialist, had been convicted of violating the Act when he sent anti-draft pamphlets to men eligible for the draft.
noLabel	As God rules in the world, the "plan of the order of things" preexists in him; in other words, his providence and the exercise of it in his government are what condition as cause everything which comes to pass in the world.	Hence follows predestination: from eternity some are destined to eternal life, while as concerns others "he permits some to fall short of that end".
noLabel	In the interest, as he sees it, of fighting for greater freedom of choice for consumers, he has also introduced bills that would significantly reduce the government's ability to prevent manufacturers or sellers of dietary supplements and certain other health products from making what government regulators believe to be false or misleading claims about the health effects of the products.	He essentially feels that consumers should be able to buy whatever health aids they want from whomever they want, without the need for guidance by the government .
noLabel	Tariff-rate quotas (TRQs), introduced by the Uruguay Round with the aim of securing a minimum level of market access, have performed poorly.	Average fill rates have been low and declining, from 67% in 1995 to 63% in 1998, with about a quarter of TRQs filled to less than 20%.
noLabel	Considered by some to be a British neo-conservative, he called for early intervention against Saddam Hussein and stated in October 2004 of Tony Blair: "I can't hold it back any more; I love Tony!"	He is a signatory of the Henry Jackson Society, which advocates an active approach to the spread of democracy, and an adviser to the Atlantic Bridge, which works to affirm the Transatlantic alliance. 
noLabel	Philosopher John Rawls offered this variant of substantive equality of opportunity, and explained that it happens when individuals with the same "native talent and the same ambition" have the same prospects of success in competitions .	Gordon Marshall offers a similar view with the words "positions are to be open to all under conditions in which persons of similar abilities have equal access to office.
noLabel	However, the Swedes began to resent the monopoly trading position of the Hansa (mostly German citizens) and to resent the income they felt they lost to the Hansa.	Consequently, when Gustav Vasa or Gustav I broke the monopoly power of the Hanseatic League he was regarded as a hero to the Swedish people.
noLabel	On 5 May 1955, union delegates gathered in New York on behalf of 16 million workers, to witness and support the merger of The American Federation of Labor and The Congress of Industrial Organization.	The merger is a result of 20 years of effort put forth by both the AFL and CIO presidents, George Meany and Walter Reuther.
noLabel	Because of the possibility the tests were biased in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, no candidates were promoted pending outcome of the controversy .	In a split 5-4 vote, the Supreme Court ruled that New Haven had engaged in impermissible racial discrimination against the White and Hispanic majority.
noLabel	Yet another area of concern is the lack of religious freedom, highlighted by alleged repression of Christian, Tibetan Buddhist, and Falun Gong groups.	Some indigenous groups are trying to expand these freedoms; they include Human Rights in China, Chinese Human Rights Defenders (CHRD), and the China Human Rights Lawyers Concern Group (CHRLCG).
noLabel	The general framework through which these missions are to be accomplished is set forth in the Basic Policy for National Defense adopted by the cabinet in 1957; it remains in force.	According to this document, the nation's security would be achieved by supporting the United Nations Organization (UN) and promoting international cooperation, by stabilizing domestic affairs and enhancing public welfare, by gradually developing an effective self-defense capability, and by dealing with external aggression on the basis of Japan-United States security arrangements, pending the effective functioning of the UN. 
noLabel	In the private sector, the situation was even worse as Canada retained the unreformed common law of libel without the exceptions for public issues or public interest that were added in all other English-speaking countries.	This made political libel cases unfortunately common, with one infamous case even filed by the Prime Minister himself versus Official Opposition for alleging that the Prime Minister, when in Opposition, had bribed MP Chuck Cadman. 
noLabel	A 17 January 2008, article in the Wall Street Journal states, "Worldwide, 13,080 desalination plants produce more than 12 billion gallons of water a day, according to the International Desalination Association.	" After being desalinized at Jubail, Saudi Arabia, water is pumped inland though a pipeline to the capital city of Riyadh . 
noLabel	However, a subsequent essay by Zechariah Chafee titled “Freedom of Speech in War Time” argued despite context that Holmes had intended to substitute clear and present danger for the bad-tendency standard a more protective standard of free speech .	Bad tendency was a far more ambiguous standard where speech could be punished even in the absence of identifiable danger, and as such was strongly opposed by the fledgling American Civil Liberties Union and other libertarians of the time. 
noLabel	But he also explicitly denounced the forcing of circumcision upon non-Jews, rejecting and condemning those who stipulated the ritual to Gentile Christians, labelling such advocates as "false brothers".	According to the same researchers, in the mid 2nd century Jewish leaders introduced a radical method of circumcision, the periah, that left the glans totally uncovered, making it almost impossible to restore the foreskin . 
noLabel	Since voting involves counting, it is algorithmic in nature, and, since it involves polling the sentiments of a person, this represents affective data.	Together, with the exception of proxy voting, this corresponds to in-degree centrality in graph theory and social network analysis, with votes as directed edges, and voters and candidates as nodes .
noLabel	The Republicans claimed that the delay may have prevented military service people from voting, thereby skewing the results in King County.	On air, local talk radio host Bryan Suits claimed that his vote in particular was not counted while he performed military service in Iraq. 
noLabel	The lower floors were typically occupied by either shops or wealthy families, while the upper stories were rented out to the lower classes .	Surviving Oxyrhynchus Papyri indicate that seven-story buildings even existed in provincial towns, such as in 3rd century Hermopolis in Roman Egypt .
noLabel	Diverting large amounts of river water reduces river flows, affecting water velocity and depth, minimizing habitat quality for fish and aquatic organisms; reduced flows can lead to excessively warm water for salmon and other fish in summer .	As planned, the Bute Inlet project in BC could divert 95 percent of the mean annual flow in at least three of the rivers . 
noLabel	Some states, such as Massachusetts, will only grant a school "university status" if it grants at least two doctoral degrees .	In the United Kingdom, the Privy Council is responsible for approving the use of the word "university" in the title of an institution, under the terms of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 .
noLabel	In July 2003, Amnesty International reported the arrest of five Gabonese known to be members of the cyber-dissident group Bongo Doit Partir.	The five members were detained for three months (See: Gabon: Prisoners of Conscience  and Gabon: Further information on Prisoners of conscience ). 
noLabel	|- Moscow 37 The protest by 37 Palestinians, Azeris and Russian Muslims was not sanctioned, and they were subsequently detained .	On January 15, another protest was held in front of the Israeli embassy, attended by members of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation
noLabel	The first theory of eugenics was developed in 1869 by Francis Galton (1822–1911), who used the then popular concept of degeneration.	He applied statistics to study human differences and the alleged "inheritance of intelligence", foreshadowing future uses of "intelligence testing" by the anthropometry school.
noLabel	Some state-owned companies are so large that there is the risk of sucking liquidity from the rest of the market, even in the most liquid marketplaces: this may favor gradual privatization.	The first tranche of a multi-step privatization would also in the first instance establish a valuation for the enterprise to mitigate complaints of under-pricing. 
noLabel	While some progress had been made in harmonising the work of the different international aid donors in developing countries, it was acknowledged that much more needed to be done.	The aid process was still too strongly led by donor priorities and administered through donor channels, making it hard for developing countries to take the lead.
noLabel	In modern times, this teaching has been the subject of much controversy, with many scholars decrying the perceived discrimination against women.	In <year>, Pope John Paul II clarified that "subordinate" should be defined as a " "mutual subjection out of reverence for Christ" and asserted that "the matrimonial union requires respect for and perfection of the true personal subjectivity of both of them.
noLabel	Many argued that the Bulldogs should not play in the National Championship game because they didn't play for—let alone win—the SEC Championship.	The Bulldogs and Vols finished with identical 6-2 records atop the SEC East, but Tennessee represented the division in the championship game by virtue of beating Georgia 35-14 in October.
noLabel	Much of the church’s efforts were put toward controlling what was going on sexually in a marriage, especially regarding when a married couple could have sex.	Sex was not allowed during pregnancy or menstruation, after a child birth, on Sunday, Wednesday, Friday, or Saturday, during each of the three Lents, feast days, quarterly ember days, or before communion .
noLabel	In the National Football League, for example, an initial positive test for steroids leads to a four-game suspension, or a quarter of the season.	In baseball, if random testing were to be enforced next season, a player testing positive could take the test again seven days later; if that second test came back negative, that result would wipe out the earlier positive, according to a baseball official.
noLabel	The goal of modern agriculture practices is to help farmers provide an affordable supply of food to meet the demands of a growing population .	With modern agriculture, more crops can be grown on less land allowing farmers to provide an increased supply of food at an affordable price.
noLabel	“The actions carried out by Israel on May 31, 2010, to enforce the naval blockade had the regrettable consequences of the loss of human life and physical injuries.	Nonetheless, and despite the limited number of uses of force for which we could not reach a conclusion, the actions taken were found to be legal pursuant to the rules of international law.”  .
noLabel	By the time they reached Kokura a half hour later, a 70% cloud cover had obscured the city, prohibiting the visual attack required by orders.	After three runs over the city, and with fuel running low because a transfer pump on a reserve tank had failed before take-off, they headed for their secondary target, Nagasaki .
noLabel	Activists and campaign organizations worldwide, including Burma Campaign UK and the U.S. Campaign for Burma along with members of the Support the Monks' Protest in Burma Facebook group (later the Burma Global Action Network), called for 6 October to be designated a Global Day of Action for Burma from 12:00 noon .	This event was also held in Sydney (Australia), Montreal, Ottawa, Kitchener and Vancouver (Canada), New York and San Diego (United States), Dublin (Ireland), Hong Kong and Norway in their consecutive days . 
noLabel	Firstly, certain costs are difficult to avoid and are shared by everyone, such as the costs of housing, pensions, education and health care .	If the state does not provide these services, then for those on lower incomes, the costs must be borrowed and often those on lower incomes are those who are worse equipped to manage their finances .
noLabel	Election officials in Hendersonville, North Carolina use "instant runoff" to describe a multi-seat election system that attempts to simulate in a single round of voting their previous system of multi-seat runoffs .	State law in South Carolina and Arkansas use "instant runoff" to describe the practice of having certain categories of absentee voters cast ranked ballots before the first round of a runoff that are then counted in a runoff election. 
noLabel	Land management issues including clearance of native vegetation, reafforestation of once-cleared areas, control of exotic weeds and pests, expansion of dryland salinity, and changed fire regimes.	Intensification of resource use in sectors such as forestry, fisheries, and agriculture are widely reported to contribute to biodiversity loss in Australia.
noLabel	Olivia Ball and Paul Gready argue that for both civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights, it is easy to find examples which do not fit into the above categorisation.	Among several others, they highlight the fact that maintaining a judicial system, a fundamental requirement of the civil right to due process before the law and other rights relating to judicial process, is positive, resource-intensive, progressive and vague, while the social right to housing is precise, justiciable and can be a real 'legal' right .
noLabel	The 20th Century Italian thinkers Vilfredo Pareto and Gaetano Mosca (independently) argued that democracy was illusory, and served only to mask the reality of elite rule.	Indeed, they argued that elite oligarchy is the unbendable law of human nature, due largely to the apathy and division of the masses (as opposed to the drive, initiative and unity of the elites), and that democratic institutions would do no more than shift the exercise of power from oppression to manipulation .
noLabel	By December 2005, both bills had been struck down in court by Judge Ronald Whyte as unconstitutional, thereby preventing either from going into effect on January 1, 2006.	Similar bills were subsequently filed in such states as Michigan and Illinois, but to date all have been ruled to be unconstitutional . 
noLabel	Commencing in 2003, Grade 13, or OAC, was eliminated in Ontario; it had previously been required only for students who intended to go on to university.	Children are required to attend school until the age of sixteen in most provinces, while students in Ontario and New Brunswick must attend schools until the age of eighteen. 
noLabel	The problems with illegal immigration can be divided into dangers faced by illegal immigrants and problems faced by the host or receiving country.	Illegal immigrants may expose themselves and citizens of the nations they encroach upon to dangers while engaged in illegal entry into another country.
noLabel	Although the feet were seen as beautiful, the process of foot binding was painful and left many women immobile, confining them to their homes .	Bound feet became the mark of women in high class because few lower class women had the opportunity to bind their feet due to the dependence on normal walking to complete house work .
noLabel	In the late 1980s, some constituent republics of the Soviet Union started legal moves towards or even declaration of sovereignty over their territories, citing Article 72 of the USSR Constitution, which stated that any constituent republic was free to secede .	On 7 April 1990, a law was passed allowing a republic to secede if more than two-thirds of that republic's residents vote for secession on a referendum .
noLabel	Firearms are also the most common method of suicide, accounting for 53.7% of all suicides committed in the United States in 2003 .	Most research has nevertheless found no relationship between gun availability and suicide rates, suggesting that other suicide methods, such as hanging, can usually be substituted for shooting . 
noLabel	Neither is there convincing evidence that increased reliance on oil revenues prevents democratization, despite a vast theoretical literature called "The Resource Curse" that asserts that oil revenues sever the link between citizen taxation and government accountability, the key to representative democracy (Haber and Menaldo, Forthcoming) .	The lack of evidence for these conventional theories of democratization have led researchers to search for the "deep" determinants of contemporary political institutions, be they geographical or demographic (Engerman and Sokoloff 1997; Acemoglu and Robinson 2008; Haber and Menaldo 2010) . 
noLabel	Microsoft carefully guards the intellectual property to its products by limiting access to the software source code (the inner instructions and algorithms that make its programs work), claiming that this is necessary for the security of its customers and to protect the investment it has made in product development.	In contrast, open source software (such as Mozilla’s Firefox web browser, the Open Office suite of word processing and spread sheet tools, or the operating system Linux) is, under the General Public License, open to all developers to read, change, adjust, and even to redistribute[i].
noLabel	The SPDC has not answered opposition calls to amend the 2008 constitution or state clearly how the electoral process will be managed and the terms that new political parties can organise .	In a speech to military retirees, Than Shwe said that the transition to a parliamentary system meant various parties with different opinions would appear, but he warned that the new parties should "avoid anything that leads to harming state interests" . 
noLabel	On 15 February 2006, the European Parliament accepted a resolution which condemns all violence arising from the publication of the cartoons.	It stated that the EU stands in solidarity with Denmark and all other countries that have been affected by the violence.
noLabel	Signed into law on September 6, 2003, this statute prohibits anti-SLAPP motions in response to certain public interest lawsuits and class actions, and actions that arise from commercial statements or conduct.	Section 425.18, signed into law on October 6, 2005, was enacted to facilitate SLAPP victims in recovering their damages through a SLAPPback (malicious prosecution action) against the SLAPP filers and their attorneys after the underlying SLAPP has been dismissed. 
noLabel	“…it is easy to quit from an online discussion without the pressure of complying with the majority group.” This is not to say that a Spiral of Silence does not occur in an online environment.	People are still less likely to speak out even in an online setting, when there is a dominant opinion that differs from their own .
noLabel	Many other important bodybuilders in the early history of bodybuilding prior to 1930 include: Earle Liederman (writer of some of the earliest bodybuilding instruction books), Zishe Breitbart, Georg Hackenschmidt, Emy Nkemena, George F. Jowett, Finn Hateral (a pioneer in the art of posing), Monte Saldo, Launceston Elliot, Sig Klein, Sgt.	Alfred Moss, Joe Nordquist, Lionel Strongfort (Strongfortism), Gustav Fristensky (the Czech champion), Ralph Parcaut, a champion wrestler who also authored an early book on "physical culture," and Alan C. Mead, who became an impressive muscle champion despite the fact that he lost a leg in World War I.
noLabel	The net result of these imprecisions in the data collection process is that the incidence and prevalence of penile problems probably underestimated and the problems can only be described in terms of broad diagnostic categories.	Nonetheless, we believe that the trends that emerge from the analysis are likely to reflect general differences in the medical histories of circumcised and uncircumcised children . 
noLabel	The report's authors say its objective is 'not to present a dark and gloomy scenario, but an urgent call to action'.	It warns that tackling the problems may affect the vested interests of powerful groups, and that the environment must be moved to the core of decision-making.. ' . 
noLabel	The British historian of modern Germany Richard J. Evans wrote that during the Imperial period in German history, völkisch and scientific racist ideas had become very common and accepted in many quarters in Germany .	Though the völkisch parties suffered a crushing defeat in the 1912 Reichstag elections, being all but wiped out, this had less to do with the unpopularity of their anti-Semitism than the way the mainstream German parties had incorporated it into their own platforms—which helps to explain why Nazi anti-Semitism created so little opposition during the Weimar Republic .
noLabel	The operation to kill Hungarian Jews met strong opposition within the Nazi hierarchy, and there were some suggestions that Hitler should offer the Allies a deal where they would be spared in exchange for a favorable peace settlement.	There were unofficial negotiations in Istanbul between Himmler's agents, British agents, and representatives of Jewish organizations; at one point an attempt by Eichmann to exchange one million Jews for 10,000 trucks—the so-called "blood for goods" proposal—but there was no real possibility of such a deal being struck.
noLabel	" Rich responded: "I have been fortunate enough to have been successful in business, and I want to do something in this life to advance liberty.	" Rich said: "It’s very difficult in many of these states, and very expensive, to get these measures on the ballot .. All I have done here, for the most part, is provide seed money.
noLabel	A debatable issue in managed reforestation is whether or not the succeeding forest will have the same biodiversity as the original forest.	If the forest is replaced with only one species of tree and all other vegetation is prevented from growing back, a monoculture forest similar to agricultural crops would be the result.
noLabel	Thus, an NPM still has to pay annually into a state's escrow fund an amount calculated by multiplying the number of cigarettes the NPM sells in that state during the year in question by the same per-cigarette amount for that year as set forth in the state's escrow statute.	The NPM can obtain a refund to the extent those escrowed funds are greater than the amount that the NPM would have had to pay under the MSA for that same year, based upon that same number of cigarettes sold .
noLabel	For instance the Dutch capital Amsterdam (old name Amstelredam) started with a dam through the river Amstel in the late 12th century, and Rotterdam started with a dam through the river Rotte, a minor tributary of the Nieuwe Maas.	The central square of Amsterdam, covering the original place of the 800 year old dam, still carries the name Dam Square or simply the Dam. 
noLabel	A primary benefit of such a model is that it would not be necessary to wait for a child to be sufficiently far behind to qualify for assistance .	This may enable more children to receive assistance before experiencing significant failure, which may in turn result in fewer children who need intensive and expensive special education services.
noLabel	Employment discrimination or harassment in the private sector is not unconstitutional, because Federal and most State Constitutions do not expressly give their respective government the power to enact civil rights laws that apply to the private sector.	The Federal government's authority to regulate a private business, including civil rights laws, stems from their power to regulate all commerce between the States.
noLabel	In England, Church appointments are Crown appointments, the Church carries out important state functions such as coronations, and a number of high Church officials have seats in the House of Lords (26 out of a total of 789 members), and are known as the Lords Spiritual as opposed to the Lords Temporal.	The links between church and state in the UK are, nowadays, mostly a formality and the governance of the UK is relatively secular, although the Lords Spiritual have a significant influence when they vote as a bloc on certain issues, notably abortion and assisted dying. 
noLabel	When its parent group deployed to the Mariana Islands in early November 1944, the squadron was assigned directly to the Second Air Force until creation of the 509th Composite Group .	Originally consisting of twenty-one crews, fifteen were selected to continue training and were organized into three flights of five crews, lettered A, B, and C. 
noLabel	By 2007, real estate bubbles were still under way in many parts of the world, especially in the United States, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, Italy, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland, Spain, France, Poland, South Africa, Israel, Greece, Bulgaria, Croatia, Norway, Singapore, South Korea, Sweden, Finland, Argentina, Baltic states, India, Romania, Russia, Ukraine and China .	U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan said in mid-2005 that "at a minimum, there's a little 'froth' (in the U.S. housing market) .. it's hard not to see that there are a lot of local bubbles" .
noLabel	In Germany, Volksverhetzung ("Sedition") is a punishable offense under Section 130 of the Strafgesetzbuch (Germany's criminal code) and can lead to up to five years imprisonment.	Section 130 makes it a crime to publicly incite hatred against parts of the population or to call for violent or arbitrary measures against them or to insult, maliciously slur or defame them in a manner violating their (constitutionally protected) human dignity.
noLabel	On February 5, 2003, R. J. Reynolds informed NASCAR that their five-year extension to sponsor NASCAR's premier division signed in July 2002 could be dissolved because of economic concerns at the company, in what turned out to be one of two major sponsorship losses at the sanctioning body.	Earlier in the year, ConocoPhillips, which made the 76 brand of fuel, announced it would withdraw from NASCAR at the end of the 2003 season. 
noLabel	In 1929, Fritz Lickint of Dresden, Germany, published a formal statistical evidence of a lung cancer-tobacco link, based on a study showing that lung cancer sufferers were likely to be smokers .	Lickint also argued that tobacco use was the best way to explain the fact that lung cancer struck men four or five times more often than women (since women smoked much less) . 
noLabel	Though the court did find 8 movement members guilty on alien smuggling charges, most received suspended sentences or underwent short house arrests.	Supported by the Center for Constitutional Rights, a broad coalition of eight religious organizations also eventually brought suit against the U.S. Attorney General and head of the INS.
noLabel	Even after the 1971 Act any action to detect immigration offenders in the community was still considered a police matter and largely limited to the detection of seamen deserters, absconders from ports or those who were subject to deportation action.	The powers in the 1971 Act focussed on the offences of overstaying and assumed that those who did so would be prosecuted and deported.
noLabel	In 1991 Brigitte Berendonk and Werner Franke, two opponents of the doping, published several theses which had been drafted former researchers in the GDR doping products which were at the Military Medical Academy Bad Saarow.	Based on this work, in their book (translated from German as 'Doping Documents") they were able to reconstruct the practice of doping as it was organized by the State on many great athletes from the GDR, including Marita Koch and Heike Drechsler‎, who have denied the allegations.
noLabel	The same study found that individuals using anabolic steroids for non-medical purposes had a higher employment rate and a higher household income than the general population .	Anabolic steroid users research the drugs they are taking more than other controlled-substance users; however, the major sources consulted by steroid users include friends, non-medical handbooks, and fitness magazines, which can provide questionable or inaccurate information . 
noLabel	Piketty and Saez plotted the percentage share of total income accrued by the top 1%, top 5%, and the top 10% of wage earners in the United States from 1913-2008.	According to their data, the top 1% controlled 10% of the total income while the top 5% owned approximately 13% and the top 10% possessed around 12% of total income.
noLabel	The use of vehicles in an explorable urban environment provides a basic simulation of a working city, complete with pedestrians who generally obey traffic signals.	Further details are used to flesh out an open-ended atmosphere that has been used in several other games, such as The Simpsons Hit & Run, which has less emphasis on crime or violence.
noLabel	As China's potential hydropower capacity (estimates range up to 600GW, but currently the technically exploitable and economically feasible capacity is around 400GW) is only about 25-30% utilized, there remains much space for further hyro development.	In comparison, hydro utilization in the U.S. currently is 80% and in Norway, Iceland, and other countries it is at over 90%.
noLabel	In professional boxing, until the 1980s, the "championship distance" generally referred to the title rounds that numbered between 13 and 15 .	For decades, the last heavyweight title match scheduled for less than 15 rounds had been the September 22, 1927 10-rounder between Gene Tunney and Jack Dempsey; from then, the only bout that wasn't scheduled for 15 rounds had been a scheduled 20-rounder between Joe Louis and Abe Simon on March 21, 1941 .
noLabel	One who does not know about the paradox of thrift would fall into a fallacy of composition wherein one generalizes what is perceived to be true for an individual within the economy to the overall population.	Although exercising thrift may be good for an individual by enabling that individual to save for a "rainy day", it may not be good for the economy as a whole. 
noLabel	Villa, a term originating from Roman times, when it was used to refer to a large house which one might retreat to in the country.	In the late 19th and early 20th century villa suggested a freestanding comfortable sized house, on a large block, generally found in the suburbs. 
noLabel	The U.S. economy grew by an average of 3.8% from 1946 to 1973, while real median household income surged 74% (or 2.1% a year) .	The economy since 1973, however, has been characterized by both slower growth (averaging 2.7%), and nearly stagnant living standards, with household incomes increasing by 10%, or only 0.3% annually .
noLabel	A day before, the IHH had announced that was rethinking its participation in the flotilla and might withdraw from the initiative .	On 17 June, İHH announced that they are still part of the flotilla movement, though the Mavi Marmara pulled out from the flotilla because, according to Yildirim, president of IHH, "after the damage caused to the Mavi Marmara [last year], we are not in a position to go to sea" .
noLabel	Some sociologists, for instance Karl Polanyi, have argued that relative differences in economic wealth are more important than absolute deprivation, and that it is more significant in determining human quality of life .	This debate has important consequences for social policy, particularly on whether poverty can be eliminated simply by raising total wealth or whether egalitarian measures are also needed. 
noLabel	Some British conservatives, such as Conservative Party co-chairman Sayeeda Warsi, also criticise the "'something for nothing' culture" of the welfare state, claiming that the high extent of the welfare state "discourages the unemployed from finding jobs" .	55% of people in England and 43% of people in Scotland believe that "benefits for unemployed people are too high and discourage them from finding jobs" .
noLabel	If a family not permitted to have a second child under the One Child Policy has a second child, the family sometimes chooses not to enter them in the family register, often to avoid financial and social penalties.	Being excluded from the family register (in effect, a birth certificate), they do not legally exist and as a result cannot access most public services, such as education and heath care .
noLabel	The limit for a particular grid will depend on the existing generating plants, pricing mechanisms, capacity for storage or demand management, and other factors.	An interconnected electricity grid will already include reserve generating and transmission capacity to allow for equipment failures; this reserve capacity can also serve to regulate for the varying power generation by wind plants.
noLabel	Modern boxing gloves were developed to protect the hands of the striker during a bout (as opposed to the ancient cestus, developed as a weapon), though specialized gloves are now available for competitions, sparring practice and other types of training.	The use of modern boxing gloves typically results in fewer superficial facial injuries but does not reduce the risk of brain damage for participants, and may even increase it because of the ability to throw stronger punches to the head without hurting the hands .
noLabel	On 12 February 2012, amid riots in Athens and other cities that left stores looted and burned and more than 120 people injured, the Greek parliament approved the new harsh austerity package, with a 199-74 majority.	Forty-three lawmakers from the ruling Socialist PASOK and conservative New Democracy who voted against the bill were immediately expelled from their parties, reducing the ruling coalitions's majority in the 300-seat parliament from 236 to 193 .
noLabel	During the early 2000s (decade) Rangel advocated continued funding of anti-poverty efforts, including Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and Child care and development block grant.	Rangel also had an unproductive relationship with Ways and Means chairman Bill Thomas, leading to an incident where Thomas called the United States Capitol Police on Rangel for having his members read a bill in the library, an action Thomas apologized for . 
noLabel	Recent developments in sports technology for boxing has introduced systems like the Automated Boxing Scoring System which uses instrumented boxing gear to send information back to a ring-side computer for the purposes of scoring.	The system was developed to overcome the shortcomings of the computer scoring system, however the automated system has not been introduced as the official scoring system yet and could take some time to become accepted by boxing officials.
noLabel	Smoke-free regulations came into effect in Scotland on 26 March 2006, in Wales on 2 April 2007, in Northern Ireland on 30 April 2007 and in England on 1 July 2007 .	The legislation was cited as an example of good regulation which has had a favourable impact on the UK economy by the Department of Business Innovation and Skills  and a review of the impact of smoke-free legislation carried out for the Department of Health concluded that there was no clear adverse impact on the hospitality industry despite initial criticism from some voices within the pub trade. 
noLabel	For example, the monarch cannot impose and collect new taxes; such an action requires the authorisation of an Act of Parliament.	According to a parliamentary report, "The Crown cannot invent new prerogative powers", and Parliament can override any prerogative power by passing legislation . 
noLabel	Now, as the Athens Olympics approaches, we are witnessing the groundbreaking intersection of the legal efforts to ferret out the criminal acts associated with Balco, while the United States Anti-Doping Agency pursues code violations.	All this is occurring as anxious athletes await their fate, with threats of civil suits lurking, and potential penalties are being hotly contested by lawyers on both sides.
noLabel	James Shikwati (born 1970) is a Kenyan libertarian economist and Director of the Inter Region Economic Network who promotes freedom of trade as the driving solution to poverty in Africa.	He has made comments which imply that aid towards Africa does more harm than good to their people, based on the central arguments that it is mainly used either by politicians as a tool to manipulate people and influence votes, or as a mechanism for dumping subsidised foreign agricultural products onto local markets at below cost making it nearly impossible for African farmers to compete.
noLabel	 Qatari Emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani condemned Israel’s deadly raid against a Gaza-bound aid flotilla, branding it an "act of piracy.	" At the Doha Forum 2010, he stated that "The crime perpetrated this morning against civilians supporting the Palestinians reminds us of the unjust siege, the open, bleeding wound in the Strip.
noLabel	In neighborhoods inhabited by predominantly working and lower class families, properties are less expensive, and so property taxes are much lower than those in affluent neighborhoods.	Consequently, funding for the school districts to which working and lower class children are assigned is also significantly lower than the funding for the school districts to which children of affluent families are assigned.
noLabel	Tobacco control as a scientifically-based approach originates from post-war epidemiology, and notably the work of Richard Doll in the UK, who first identified the causal link between smoking and lung cancer in 1952.	Partial controls and regulatory measures eventually followed in much of the developed world, including partial advertising bans, minimum age of sale requirements, and basic health warnings on tobacco packaging.
noLabel	In 1960, Pierre Dumas walked into a hotel bedroom on his nightly tour of teams to find eventual winner Gastone Nencini prone on his bed with a plastic tube running from each arm to a bottle containing hormones .	However, the hormone injection was not illegal at the time, and indeed only few were disqualified or sanctioned whenever they were found out to use doping .
noLabel	Animals, including horses, mules, oxen, camels, llamas, alpacas, and dogs, are often used to help cultivate fields, harvest crops, wrangle other animals, and transport farm products to buyers.	Animal husbandry not only refers to the breeding and raising of animals for meat or to harvest animal products (like milk, eggs, or wool) on a continual basis, but also to the breeding and care of species for work and companionship. 
noLabel	A juvenile delinquent is a person who is typically under the age of 18 and commits an act that otherwise would have been charged as a crime if they were an adult.	Depending on the type and severity of the offense committed, it is possible for persons under 18 to be charged and tried as adults. 
noLabel	Other fiction, particularly in a long-running television series, looks at the long-term effects of becoming a parent at a very young age (Degrassi Junior High).	In Gilmore Girls, because Lorelai Gilmore is only 16 years older than her daughter Rory, the two are more like sisters than parent and child.
noLabel	Director for the 1998 test site preparations, Dr. K. Santhanam, reported the yield of thermonuclear explosion was lower than expected, although his statement has been disputed by other Indian scientists involved in the test .	Indian sources, using local data and citing a US Geologic Survey report compiling seismic data from 125 IRIS stations across the world, argue that the magnitudes suggested a combined yield of up to 60 kilotonnes, consistent with the Indian announced total yield of 56 kilotonnes However, several independent experts have reported lower yields for the nuclear test and remained skeptical about the claims, and others have argued that even the claimed 50 kiloton yield was low for confirmation of a thermonuclear design .
noLabel	Some action has been taken by suggesting fallow periods of the land allowing secondary forest to grow and replenish the soil .	Beneficial practices like soil restoration and conservation can benefit the small farmer and allow better production on smaller parcles of land.
noLabel	In the United States, especially during the Vietnam Era, some used political connections to ensure that they were placed well away from any potential harm, serving in what was termed a Champagne unit.	Many would avoid military service altogether through college deferments, by becoming fathers, or serving in various exempt jobs (teaching was one possibility).
noLabel	restriction on removal) if the applicant can prove that her life or freedom would be threatened upon return to her country of origin.	The dispute in asylum cases litigated before the Executive Office for Immigration Review and, subsequently, the federal courts centers on whether the immigration courts properly rejected the applicant's claim that she is eligible for asylum or other relief. 
noLabel	For example, there is evidence that smokers are more willing to do risky jobs than non-smokers, and this greater willingness to accept risk might reduce insurance purchase by smokers.	From a public policy viewpoint, some adverse selection can also be advantageous because it may lead to a higher fraction of total losses for the whole population being covered by insurance than if there were no adverse selection . 
noLabel	The measure as ultimately passed eliminated the special Medicaid reimbursement for Nebraska, as Nelson had requested in a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid about a month after his crucial cloture vote .	Nelson stated that his opposition to the final measure arose from newly-added provisions related to student loans, which would adversely affect Nebraska-based student-lending firm Nelnet .
noLabel	In 2007, the UN called on western nations to accept more Iraqi refugees, signaling specifically the US and the UK and adding that the latter should “take the lead in Europe by immediately announcing a program to resettle some of the Iraqi refugees currently living in the most difficult conditions” .	After 18 months of pressure by the UNHCR, the EU reached a (non-binding) agreement in November 2008 for accepting up to 10,000 Iraqi refugees, giving special treatment to those living in extreme conditions in Syria and Jordan . 
noLabel	All of these definitions imply a negative judgment of the drug use in question (compare with the term responsible drug use for alternative views).	Some of the drugs most often associated with this term include alcohol, amphetamines, barbiturates, benzodiazepines (particularly temazepam, nimetazepam, and flunitrazepam), cocaine, methaqualone, and opioids.
noLabel	The monthly benefit is fixed at the "55% of 25 minimum daily wages", and is currently 454 euros per month, with a 10% increase for each under-age child.	Recipients are eligible for at most 12 months; the exact duration depends on the collected number of ensema ένσημα, that is social security payment coupons-stamps collected (id est days of work) during the 14 months before being laid off .
noLabel	Khrushchev warned in a filmed speech to the Communist Parliament of the existence of a 100&nbsp;Mt bomb (technically the design was capable of this yield).	Although simplistic fireball calculations predicted the fireball would impact the ground, the bomb's own shock wave reflected back and prevented this .
noLabel	The argument is structured as a basic Modus tollens: if "creation" contains many defects, then design is not a plausible theory for the origin of our existence.	It is most commonly used in a weaker way, however: not with the aim of disproving the existence of God, but rather as a reductio ad absurdum of the well-known argument from design, which runs as follows: . 
noLabel	James's overthrow, known as the Glorious Revolution, was one of the most important events in the long evolution of parliamentary power.	The Bill of Rights 1689 affirmed parliamentary supremacy, and declared that the English people held certain rights, including the freedom from taxes imposed without parliamentary consent.
noLabel	A monarch may retain his style and certain prerogatives after abdication, as King Leopold III of Belgium who left the throne to his son after winning (but not in both linguistic communities of the country) a referendum; he retained a full royal household but no constitutional or representative role at all.	In the case of Napoleon I Bonaparte, the Italian principality of Elba, chosen for his luxurious imprisonment after the remains of his Grande Armée (following the disastrous Russian campaign) had finally been defeated in 1814, was transformed into a miniature version of his First Empire, with most trappings of a sovereign monarchy, until his Cent Jours ('100 days' escape and reseizure of power in France) convinced the allies, reconvening the Vienna Congress in 1815, to revoke those gratuitous privileges and send him to die in exile on barren Saint Helena. 
noLabel	He who passes to someone else information about a person that is included in a personal database and that one knows to be false, is punished with six months to 3 years in prison.	When there is harm to somebody, penalties are aggravated by an extra half (Article 117 bis, §§ 2nd and 3rd) .
noLabel	So quickly I returned to the place where Alypius was sitting; for there had I put down the volume of the apostles, when I rose thence.	I grasped, opened, and in silence read that paragraph on which my eyes first fell: "Not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying; but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof."
noLabel	Article 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that "Everyone has the right to seek and to enjoy in other countries asylum from persecution."	The United Nations 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees guides national legislation concerning political asylum.
noLabel	In February 2009, Zamir Akram, permanent representative of Pakistan to the United Nations Office at Geneva, in a meeting of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, commented on the "defamation of religion."	He said "there was an impression that Pakistan was trying to put in place an international anti-defamation provision in the context of the Durban Review Conference."
noLabel	In fact, philosophy was only a second option for him at that time, to be able to emigrate to escape the imminent Anschluss.	He was active in the Wiener Schulreform (Vienna school reform) movement, and there are connections between the psychology of learning, on which he did his doctoral thesis, and his philosophy .
noLabel	But now we are witnessing the evolution of a new world order in elite sports, one committed to fair play and ethical values, one whose troubled roots can be found in a 30-year dysfunctional system of inadequate drug control.	In the old world order, some countries encouraged the use of performance-enhancing drugs as evidenced by East Germany's institutionalized doping experiments.
noLabel	However, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy have said on numerous occasions that they would not allow the eurozone to disintegrate and have linked the survival of the Euro with that of the entire European Union .	In September 2011, EU commissioner Joaquín Almunia shared this view, saying that expelling weaker countries from the euro was not an option: "Those who think that this hypothesis is possible just do not understand our process of integration" .
noLabel	The Persian Gulf region continued to be regarded as an area of vital importance to the United States during the Cold War.	Three Cold War United States Presidential doctrines—the Truman Doctrine, the Eisenhower Doctrine, and the Nixon Doctrine—played roles in the formulation of the Carter Doctrine, which stated that the United States would use military force if necessary to defend its "national interests" in the Persian Gulf region .
noLabel	The foundation of Sweden's success during this period is credited to Gustav I's major changes on the Swedish economy in the 16th century, and his introduction of Protestantism .	In the 17th century, Sweden was engaged in many wars, for example with the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth with both sides competing for territories of today's Baltic states, with the disastrous Battle of Kircholm being one of the highlights .
noLabel	Paul calls for the elimination of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), which is tasked with coordinating preparedness and relief for natural disasters.	He regards the argument for FEMA as “symptomatic of a blind belief in big government's ability to do anything and everything for anyone and everyone..
noLabel	It is usually performed by a mohel on the eighth day after birth in a ceremony called a Brit milah (or Bris milah, colloquially simply bris), which means "Covenant of circumcision" in Hebrew.	It is considered of such importance that in Orthodox communities, the body of an uncircumcised Jewish male will sometimes be circumcised before burial .
noLabel	 Uruguay's Foreign Affairs Ministry condemned the Israeli navy's action, expressed sorrow for the loss of life and demanded a "quick independent investigation and called on the Israeli government for full cooperation.	" The ministry has also expressed its solidarity with the families of the victims and is asking for the siege on Gaza to end .
noLabel	Although approaches varied, the World Bank said the key issues were security of tenure and ensuring land transactions were low cost .	In China and India, noted reductions in poverty in recent decades have occurred mostly as a result of the abandonment of collective farming in China and the cutting of government red tape in India . 
noLabel	A May 21, 2009 article in The Washington Post stated, "To build support for the stimulus package, President Obama vowed unprecedented transparency, a big part of which, he said, would be allowing taxpayers to track money to the street level on Recovery.gov..	But three months after the bill was signed, Recovery.gov offers little beyond news releases, general breakdowns of spending, and acronym-laden spreadsheets and timelines."
noLabel	 The MV Rachel Corrie, a seventh ship that had been delayed, set sail from Malta on the same day of the flotilla's interception.	Israeli naval vessels shadowed the Rachel Corrie, and after it ignored three warnings, Israeli commandos boarded the ship from speedboats, arrested the crew, and forced it to sail to Ashdod .
noLabel	The findings of the original "Refugee Roulette" study were reported as the lead story on the front page of the New York Times on May 31, 2007 .	The study was also reported in the Atlantic Monthly and many other media outlets, including the Atlanta Journal-Constitution, the Christian Science Monitor, the Dallas Morning News, and the Miami Herald .
noLabel	Since 2006, the Governance of the Gaza Strip has been performed by the Hamas administration, which is often referred to as the Hamas government in Gaza .	Due to the conservative Islamic nature of the regime in Gaza, the polity is also referred as the Islamist Emirate of Gaza, or as Hamastan by some sources . 
noLabel	Washington state, along with California and Alaska, had a blanket primary system that allowed every voter to choose a candidate of any party for each position.	This kind of system was ruled unconstitutional in California Democratic Party v. Jones in 2000 because it forced political parties to endorse candidates against their will . 
noLabel	Religious terrorist organizations such as the forenamed Ku Klux Klan, Kach and Kahane Chai and others also hold ostensibly racist views .	There are arguments, however, that these positions may be as much reflections of contemporary social views as of what has been called scientific racism . 
noLabel	Each center encourages student participation in campus life, student organizations, academic excellence, and community service by providing advising, advocacy, mentoring, and leadership training to individual students as they pertain to overall student development issues.	While Multicultural Affairs centers their efforts on placing a value of diversity and building a sense of community, campuses implement their efforts in many ways.
noLabel	Many immigrants to Canada choose to live in ethnic enclaves because it can be much easier than fitting in with mainstream Canadian culture .	Canada has many ethnocentric areas, which can provide a sense of comfort and security to immigrants, and also create a sense of familiarity in a new place.
noLabel	Smaller bombs meant that bombers could carry more of them, and also that they could be carried on the new generation of rockets in development in the 1950s and 1960s.	U.S. rocket science received a large boost in the postwar years, largely with the help of engineers acquired from the Nazi rocketry program.
noLabel	Logrolling depends on the reality that the marginal benefit (or utility) of at least some of the elected officials, or the citizenry, will increase when the legislation is passed (Buchanan and Tullock 1962).	Any economist will consider the immediate opportunity cost of the logrolling procedure within the legislative body, as well as the external cost of the vote (the cost to enact and see the bill through to fruition). 
noLabel	Work of the American Operation Alsos teams, in November 1944, uncovered leads which took them to a company in Paris that handled rare earths and had been taken over by the Auergesellschaft.	This, combined with information gathered in the same month through an Alsos team in Strasbourg, confirmed that the Oranienburg plant was involved in the production of uranium and thorium metals.
noLabel	In October 2005, Brown was arrested and charged with kidnapping an 18-year old Vietnamese-American high school student from a flea market in Milton, West Virginia on October 2, 2005.	According to the police, Brown, allegedly upset that collectible coins he had purchased a few weeks before were worthless, returned to the flea market representing himself as a police officer, handcuffed her, and drove the girl to Kanawha County under the pretense of taking her in for questioning .
noLabel	Researchers stress that the presence or absence of a hymen is not a reliable indicator of whether or not a female has been vaginally penetrated .	The hymen is a thin film of membrane situated just inside the vulva which can partially occlude the entrance to the vaginal canal.
noLabel	After his death, his parents said, they learned that Taylor had hurled a phone through a wall, hiding the damage behind a picture, and had pummeled his girlfriend's former boyfriend, who required nine stitches to close a wound.	Ajello said that he had warned Taylor about the health risks of steroids, but that Taylor kind of blew it off.
noLabel	The "extermination of nine kindreds" (誅九族) is considered one of the most severe punishments found in traditional Chinese law enforced until the end of Qing.	The practice of exterminating the kins had been established since Qin when Emperor Qin Shi Huang (reigned 247 BC–221 BC) declared "Those who criticize the present with that of the past: Zu" (以古非今者族).
noLabel	Liberalism (from the Latin liberalis, "of freedom; worthy of a free man, gentlemanlike, courteous, generous") is the belief in the importance of individual freedom.	This belief is widely accepted in the United States, Europe, Australia and other Western nations, and was recognized as an important value by many Western philosophers throughout history, in particular since the Enlightenment.
noLabel	Iran is a party to the NPT but was found in non-compliance with its NPT safeguards agreement and the status of its nuclear program remains in dispute.	In November 2003 IAEA Director General Mohamed ElBaradei reported that Iran had repeatedly and over an extended period failed to meet its safeguards obligations, including by failing to declare its uranium enrichment program .
noLabel	Wikileaks made the documents available under embargo to a number of media organisations: Der Spiegel, The Guardian, The New York Times, Al Jazeera, Le Monde, the Bureau of Investigative Journalism, and the Iraq Body Count project .	Upon the lifting of the embargo, the media coverage by these groups was followed by further coverage by other media organisations.
noLabel	Other meanings include gambling and events staged for the purpose of gambling; hunting; and games and diversions, including ones that require exercise .	Roget's defines the noun sport as an "activity engaged in for relaxation and amusement" with synonyms including diversion and recreation .
noLabel	Ballistic missile submarines established a second strike capability through their stealth and by the number fielded by each Cold War adversary&mdash;it was highly unlikely that all of them could be targeted and preemptively destroyed (in contrast to, for example, a missile silo with a fixed location that could be targeted during a first strike).	Given their long range, high survivability and ability to carry many medium- and long-range nuclear missiles, submarines were credible and effective means for full-scale retaliation even after a massive first strike.
noLabel	Trade unions often benefit insider workers, those having a secure job and high productivity, at the cost of outsider workers, consumers of the goods or services produced, and the shareholders of the unionized business.	The ones who are likely to lose the most from a trade union are those who are unemployed or at the risk of unemployment or who are not able to get the job that they want in a particular field . 
noLabel	This shows the productivity of an ecosystem with its inhabitants .Productivity within the ecosystem cannot come to fruition unless the forest is sustainable enough to be harvested.	If all of the organisms of the ecosystem are non existent, the ecosystem itself will soon come to be non existent.
noLabel	Roll Call reported that CREW investigated "groups and individuals who are the foes of CREW's donors" as well as a political opponent of one of CREW's board directors, and that CREW refused to disclose its donor list .	Donors to CREW include such liberal groups as George Soros' Open Society Institute, Democracy Alliance, Service Employees International Union, the , and the Gill Foundation .
noLabel	In the United States, the United States Civil Service utilized the Spoils System from 1828 until the assassination of United States President Garfield by a disappointed office seeker in 1881 proved its dangers.	Two years later in 1883, the system of appointments to the United States Federal Bureaucracy was revamped by the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act, partially based on the British meritocratic civil service that had been established years earlier.
noLabel	He states that he believes that stem cell research, and indeed embryonic stem cell research, will continue whether or not the U.S. sanctions it, and so it would be the wisest course of action to support it to the extent that the United States will be able to regulate and monitor the use.	In July 2008 he said “At the moment I support stem cell research [because of] the potential it has for curing some of the most terrible diseases that afflict mankind.” . 
noLabel	Also, major advances have been made even in some of the poorest countries, again the majority of them in the sub-Saharan region of Africa.	With the abolition of primary school fees in Burundi, there was an increase in primary-school enrollment since 1999; it reached 99 percent in 2008.
noLabel	Pipe and Pouch came in a leather bag resembling a tobacco pouch and Cigarettes in Fact and Fancy (1901) came bound in leather, packaged in an imitation cardboard cigar box.	By the late 1920s, the publication of this type of literature largely abated and was only sporadically revived in the later 20th century .
noLabel	There was also racism against German-Americans and Italian-Americans due to these being enemy countries in World War I (Germany) and World War II (Germany and Italy).	This resulted in a sharp decrease in German-American ethnic identity and a sharp decrease in the use of German in the United States following WWI, which had hitherto been significant, and to German American internment and Italian American internment during WWII; see also World War I anti-German sentiment. 
noLabel	In August 2008, the 2008 South Ossetia war broke out when Georgia launched a military offensive against South Ossetian separatists, leading to military intervention by Russia, during which Georgian forces were expelled from the separatist territories of South Ossetia and Abkhazia.	During the fighting, 15,000 ethnic Georgians living in South Ossetia were forced to flee to Georgia proper, and Ossetian militia burned their villages to prevent their return. 
noLabel	Scientists discovered that an atomic bomb based on uranium would require at least 80% pure uranium-235, otherwise the presence of uranium-238 would quickly curtail the nuclear chain reaction.	The team of scientists working at the Manhattan Project quickly realized that one of the largest problems was how to remove uranium-235 from natural uranium, which was composed of 99.3% uranium-238. 
noLabel	The Dragon Quest series was awarded with six world records in the 2008 Gamer's Edition of the Guinness Book of World Records, including "Best Selling Role Playing Game on the Super Famicom", "Fastest Selling Game in Japan", and "First Video Game Series to Inspire a Ballet" .	Likewise, the Pokémon series received eight records, including "Most Successful RPG Series of All Time", "Game Series With the Most Spin-Off Movies" and "Most Photosensitive Epileptic Seizures Caused by a TV Show" .
noLabel	Donohue and Levitt admit the programming error made in the original version of the paper and then go on to address the two points that Foote and Goetz make (see here  for the reply).	Donohue and Levitt contend that even though the Foote and Goetz analysis was doing what Donohue and Levitt claim that they were originally doing, the Foote and Goetz analysis produces heavy attenuation bias (the reason they find no statistical relationship between abortion and crime).
noLabel	" She goes on to note, "In essence Targeted Killing in International Law is a book about balance and the desire for careful consideration before the application of policies involving the destruction of lives.	" Of the author's focus throughout the work, Durhan observes, "Melzer deals with each of the legal issues involved in targeted killing with clarity and precision.
noLabel	In February, Finnish Minister of Foreign Affairs Erkki Tuomioja said that Denmark should have acted earlier and paid more attention to Muslim outrage over the offensive caricatures.	He added that the Danish government could apologise for the fact that religious feelings were offended, without endangering freedom of expression .
noLabel	In common use a "PC game" refers to a form of media that involves a player interacting with a IBM PC compatible personal computer connected to a video monitor.	A "console game" is played on a specialized electronic device that connects to a common television set or composite video monitor.
noLabel	Other complaints are that the military bases disrupt the lives of the Okinawan people; the American military occupy more than a fifth of the main island.	The biggest and most active air force base in east Asia, Kadena Air Base, is based on the island; the islanders complain the base produces large amounts of noise and is dangerous in other ways.
noLabel	In civil proceedings and criminal prosecutions under the common law, a defendant may raise a defense (or defence) in an attempt to avoid criminal or civil liability.	Besides contesting the accuracy of any allegation made against him or her in a criminal or civil proceeding, a defendant may also make allegations against the prosecutor or plaintiff or raise a defense, arguing that, even if the allegations against the defendant are true, the defendant is nevertheless not liable. 
noLabel	Natural law () is an ethical theory that posits the existence of a law whose content is set by nature and that therefore has validity everywhere .	Despite pagan associations with natural law theory, a number (though not all) of the early Church Fathers sought to incorporate it into Christianity. 
noLabel	The Roman Catholic Church has opposed abortion, sterilization, and contraception as a general practice, but specifically in regard to population control policies.	Pope Benedict XVI has stated that "The extermination of millions of unborn children, in the name of the fight against poverty, actually constitutes the destruction of the poorest of all human beings" .
noLabel	in (Lower) 'Asir, under the Idris dynasty, the religious style of Imam was combined with the temporal ruler style of Sheikh from 1830.	Since 1909 the higher style (assumed by the last of four Shaikhs) of Emir was used until 20 November 1930 when the shaikhdom was incorporated into Hejaz-Nejd (which became modern Saudi Arabia)
noLabel	The first of the twelve, which is still technically pending before the state legislatures for ratification, pertains to the apportionment of the United States House of Representatives after each decennial census.	The most recent state whose lawmakers are known to have ratified this proposal is Kentucky in 1792, during that commonwealth's first month of statehood. 
noLabel	The United States Supreme Court has referenced the separation of church and state metaphor more than 25 times, though not always fully embracing the principle .	In Reynolds, the Court denied the free exercise claims of Mormons in the Utah territory who claimed polygamy was an aspect of their religious freedom.
noLabel	Studies from the Colorado River in the United States suggest that modest climate changes, such as an increase in temperature in 2 degree Celsius resulting in a 10% decline in precipitation, might reduce river run-oﬀ by up to 40% .	Brazil in particular is vulnerable due to its heaving reliance on hydroelectricity, as increasing temperatures, lower water ﬂow and alterations in the rainfall regime, could reduce total energy production by 7% annually by the end of the century .
noLabel	During the cold war, various governments developed civil defence programmes aimed to prepare civilian and local government infrastructure for a nuclear strike on the UK.	A series of seven Civil Defence Bulletin films were produced in 1964; and in the 1980s the most famous such programme was probably the series of booklets and public information films entitled Protect and Survive.
noLabel	These programs were undercut significantly by the Global Gag Rule, an initiative put in place by President Ronald Reagan, suspended by President Bill Clinton, and re-instated by President George W. Bush.	The Global Gag Rule "..required nongovernmental organizations to agree as a condition of their receipt of Federal funds that such organizations would neither perform nor actively promote abortion as a method of family planning in other nations.." The Global Gag Rule was again suspended as one of the first official acts by United States President Barack Obama .
noLabel	When riots and looting broke out in Antalaha on January 27 and 28, the rosewood mafia recovered an estimated of previously seized logs from the Water and Forests Headquarters.	Armed militia backed by foreign profiteers (primarily from China) descended on local villages and began soliciting workers for logging, issuing death threats for villages who opposed them.
noLabel	On the other hand, proponents of abstinence-only sex education object to curricula that fail to teach their standard of moral behavior; they maintain that a morality based on sex only within the bounds of marriage is "healthy and constructive" and that value-free knowledge of the body may lead to immoral, unhealthy, and harmful practices.	Within the last decade, the federal government has encouraged abstinence-only education by steering over a billion dollars to such programs .
noLabel	Within Marxist orthodoxy there is a hostility to what is commonly called "liberal democracy", which they simply refer to as parliamentary democracy because of its often centralized nature.	Because of their desire to eliminate the political elitism they see in capitalism, Marxists, Leninists and Trotskyists believe in direct democracy implemented through a system of communes (which are sometimes called soviets).
noLabel	On 25 November 1981 the United Nations General Assembly passed the "Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief."	This declaration recognizes freedom of religion as a fundamental human right in accordance with several other instruments of international law, but the international community has not passed any binding legal instruments that guarantee the right to freedom of religion .
noLabel	The nearest CND has come to having an electoral arm was the Independent Nuclear Disarmament Election Campaign (INDEC) which stood candidates in a few local elections during the 1960s.	Although never formally endorsed by CND nationally, INDEC candidates were generally put up by local CND groups as a means of raising the profile of this issue in public politics.
noLabel	In July 2011, Abdul Qadeer Khan, the key figure in Pakistan's nuclear weapons development, allegedly claimed that North Korea had gained access to Pakistan's nuclear technology in the late 1990s by paying bribes to Pakistan's senior military officials, a claim Pakistan's senior officials disputed.	Khan stated that he had personally helped transfer $3 million in gratuities to senior Pakistan's military officers, though he neither provided any proofs to his claims .
noLabel	The patriarchal structure of a society is the single most important factor skewing the sex ratio in favor of males, accentuated in some cultures by the burden of raising a dowry for a daughter's marriage.	Openness to the very concept of sex selection is a significant factor: among societies which practice selective female abortion nowadays, many were systematically practicing female infanticide (either directly or by withholding postnatal care from children of undesirable sex) long before abortion became a viable option . 
noLabel	Calvi, often referred to as "God's Banker", was also involved the Vatican Bank, Istituto per le Opere di Religione, in his dealings, and was close to Bishop Paul Marcinkus, the bank's chairman.	Ambrosiano also provided funds for political parties in Italy, and for both the Somoza dictatorship in Nicaragua and its Sandinista opposition.
noLabel	Sessions was only the second freshman Republican senator from Alabama since Reconstruction and gave Alabama two Republican senators, a first since Reconstruction.	Sessions was easily reelected in 2002 becoming the first (or second, if one counts his colleague Richard Shelby, who switched from Democrat to Republican in 1994) Republican reelected to the Senate from Alabama.
noLabel	".. renewable electricity technologies present policy makers with a superior alternative for minimising the risk of fuel interruptions and shortages, helping improve the fragile transmission network and reducing environmental harm.	These smaller and more environmentally friendly generators cost less to construct, produce power in smaller increments and need not rely on continuous government subsidies.
noLabel	Because grid operational strategies are designed for traditional dispatchable energy souces like coal, integrating wind energy into the utility grid can be problematic.	Within the power grid, there must be balance between load and generation, economic and policy incentives, cost-effective storage, and robust and distributed control .
noLabel	Parents who practice concerted cultivation are also more likely to ask their children about what they learned in school each day, and ask for their opinions on different things.	This practice gives the children an opportunity to develop and articulate their own thoughts, and these critical thinking skills are important for future academic success . 
noLabel	The Kuali Foundation defines itself as a group of organizations that aims to "build and sustain open source software for higher education, by higher education."	There are many other examples of open source instruments being used in education other than the Kuali Foundation as well . 
noLabel	In the human female, a fertilized egg can implant into the fallopian tube, cervix or ovary rather than the uterus causing an ectopic pregnancy.	The existence of a cavity between the ovary and the fallopian tube could indicate a flawed design in the female reproductive system.
noLabel	Advocates for gun rights often claim that past totalitarian regimes passed gun control legislation, which was later followed by confiscation, with Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany during World War II, as well as some communist states being cited as examples .	Location and capture of firearms registration records has also long been a standard doctrine taught to military intelligence officers, and was widely practiced by German and Soviet troops during World War II in the countries they invaded . 
noLabel	The majority of the literature which examines the effects of the summer learning loss lends to the importance of involving families in the implementation of summer reading programs.	Graham, McNamara and Van Lankveld (2011) conducted a summer literacy program to address specific literacy needs of young children which also required the involvement of caregivers in program delivery.
noLabel	The effectiveness of a safety net intervention lies in the details of the implementation process and stakeholders’ involvement therein (Figure A).	An adequate transfer program incorporates at least a system to target beneficiaries, to register them, to set up program conditionalities, to make payments, and to monitor and evaluate its performance.
noLabel	Michael Tiemann, president of OSI, had criticized companies such as SugarCRM for promoting their software as "open source" when in fact it did not have an OSI-approved license.	In SugarCRM's case, it was because the software is so-called "badgeware" since it specified a "badge" that must be displayed in the user interface (SugarCRM has since switched to GPLv3).
noLabel	Garenne (2006) has doubts about circumcision's value in reducing HIV, and Talbott (2007), in a controversial paper stated that cross country regression data pointed to prostitution as the key factor in the AIDS epidemic rather than circumcision .	World Health Organization AIDS Prevention Team official Tim Farley disagreed with the findings of the paper, while Chris Surridge, PLoS One's managing editor, defended its publication .
noLabel	The raising of school leaving age (often shortened to ROSLA) is an act brought into force when the legal age a child is allowed to leave compulsory education increases.	In most countries, the school leaving age reflects when young people are seen to be mature enough within their society, but not necessarily when they are old enough to be regarded as an adult. 
noLabel	The Youth Solidarity Fund (YSF) is an international program that provides small grants of up to US$30,000 to youth organizations advancing intercultural and interfaith dialogue at the local, national, and regional or international levels.	Projects funded under this program are developed and implemented in their entirety by youth organizations and primarily for the benefit of youth.
noLabel	The Australian Broadcasting Authority released official guidelines for the restriction of mobile content which were intended to be in place for a trial period of 12 months.	No penalties were advised for breaches of these guidelines, as it was expected that the largest mobile operators would adhere to them. 
noLabel	While taking a traditional position on sexuality, defending the Church's moral opposition to marriage for same-sex couples, Pope John Paul&nbsp;II asserted that persons with homosexual inclinations possess the same inherent dignity and rights as everybody else .	In his book, Memory and Identity, he referred to the "strong pressures" by the European Parliament to recognise homosexual unions as an alternative type of family, with the right to adopt children.
noLabel	In Islamic law (Sharia), the consensus view is that a male apostate must be put to death unless he suffers from a mental disorder or converted under duress, for example, due to an imminent danger of being killed.	A female apostate must be either executed, according to Shafi'i, Maliki, and Hanbali schools of Sunni Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), or imprisoned until she reverts to Islam as advocated by the Sunni Hanafi school and by Shi'a scholars . 
noLabel	The Mérida Initiative includes $74 million to be assigned for efforts by the U.S. government to stop the flow of illegal weapons from the U.S. to Mexico, but important concerns remain regarding how this will be achieved.	According to a Mexican government official, as many as 2,000 weapons enter Mexico each year and fuel an arms race between competing drug cartels. 
noLabel	In contrast to previous studies that focused on potential harmful effects of violent video game play and links to real-life violence, Kutner and Olson take a more nuanced view of how video games influence young teens.	The authors found previous research (including experimental studies on college students) of little help to parents, teachers, pediatricians or policymakers concerned about potential risks from video game play.
noLabel	The payroll tax is considered by some to be a form of social insurance rather than a tax, due to the benefits these programs pay to qualified recipients.	For calendar year 2011, the employee's portion of the payroll tax was reduced to 4.2% as an economic stimulus measure .
noLabel	The laws of the school generally protect San children, both by disallowing them from engaging in certain dangerous activities and preventing older children from bullying, swindling or otherwise abusing their juniors.	San children have the right to bring up their cases at the beginning of the school meeting or have another student or a teacher bring the issue or issues up on their behalf. 
noLabel	Part of the difficulty in discerning between the two competing hypotheses was the fact that while the link between Hepatitis B and a higher likelihood of male birth had been documented, there was little information available on the strength of this link and how it varied by which of the parents were the carriers.	Furthermore most prior medical studies did not use a sufficiently high number of observations to convincingly estimate the magnitude of the relationship. 
noLabel	A common concern among legislators is to discourage smoking among minors and many states have passed laws against selling tobacco products to underage customers.	Many developing countries have not adopted anti-smoking policies, leading some to call for anti-smoking campaigns and further education to explain the negative effects of ETS (Environmental Tobacco Smoke) in developing countries. 
noLabel	Other criticisms involve discrepancies in the allocation of monetary resources from BCS games, as well as the determination of non-championship BCS game participants, which need not comply with the BCS rankings themselves .	Critics note that other sports and divisions of college football complete seasons without disputed national champions which critics attribute to the use of the playoff format. 
noLabel	As of the early 21st century, many states no longer conscript soldiers, relying instead upon professional militaries with volunteers enlisted to meet the demand for troops.	The ability to rely on such an arrangement, however, presupposes some degree of predictability with regard to both war-fighting requirements and the scope of hostilities.
noLabel	The anti-nuclear organisation "Nevada Semipalatinsk" was formed in 1989 and was one of the first major anti-nuclear groups in the former Soviet Union.	It attracted thousands of people to its protests and campaigns which eventually led to the closure of the nuclear test site at Semipalatinsk, in north-east Kazakhstan, in 1991 .
noLabel	The Cooperative Threat Reduction program of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency was established after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991 to aid former Soviet bloc countries in the inventory and destruction of their sites for developing nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons, and their methods of delivering them (ICBM silos, long range bombers, etc.).	Over $4.4 billion has been spent on this endeavor to prevent purposeful or accidental proliferation of weapons from the former Soviet arsenal . 
noLabel	From studying Polish immigrants in Chicago, they illustrated three forms of acculturation corresponding to three personality types: Bohemian (adopting the host culture and abandoning their culture of origin), Philistine (failing to adopt the host culture but preserving their culture of origin), and Creative-Type (able to adapt to the host culture while preserving their culture of origin) .	In 1936, Redfield, Linton, & Herskovits provided the first widely used definition of acculturation as "those phenomena which result when groups of individuals having different cultures come into continuous first-hand contact, with subsequent changes in the original cultural patterns of either or both groups…under this definition acculturation is to be distinguished from…assimilation, which is at times a phase of acculturation Since then scholars in different disciplines have developed more than 100 different theories of acculturation .
noLabel	The announcement attracted a substantial response in the UK, and a significant amount of adverse publicity, where most higher education institutions are publicly funded.	London's mayor, Boris Johnson, welcomed it as a bold experiment, while The Times argued that higher education has been a closed shop in the UK for too long .
noLabel	If an NPM concentrated its sales in a few state with low allocable share percentages, however, the NPM could obtain a refund of much of its escrow payments.	Because the Kansas percentage was so low—roughly 0.8 per cent—NPMs concentrated their sales within Kansas and a few other states to receive immediate escrow refunds from those states. 
noLabel	The Unio between the Logos and the human nature is a "relation" between the divine and the human nature which comes about by both natures being brought together in the one person of the Logos.	An incarnation can be spoken of only in the sense that the human nature began to be in the eternal hypostasis of the divine nature.
noLabel	The county's chief education officer is telling the authority that pupils will learn more and teachers will get less stressed if the authority accepts his recommendation that all its primary and secondary schools should switch to the new academic calendar next year.	Under the plan, terms would last eight weeks instead of up to 15 under the traditional system, originally designed to create a long summer break for children to help their families collecting the harvest.
noLabel	In 1994, POGO released a report criticizing the Environmental Protection Agency for failing to require the aerosol industry to warn the public about their use of "bug bombs," or insecticide foggers, which are highly flammable and potentially dangerous to its users .	By 1999, the EPA had passed a rule stating that insecticide foggers must be properly labeled to alert consumers to their dangers . 
noLabel	Forms of monarchy differ widely based on the level of legal autonomy the monarch holds in governance, the method of selection of the monarch, and any predetermined limits on the length of their tenure.	When the monarchs has no or few legal restraints in state and political matters, it is called an absolute monarchy and is a form of autocracy.
noLabel	|- In a statement issued by the Foreign Ministry, the UAE voiced its support for holding an emergency Arab League meeting, WAM reported.	In a phone conversation, President His Highness Shaikh Khalifa Bin Zayed Al Nahyan discussed with Shaikh Hamad Bin Khalifa Al Thani, Emir of Qatar, the situation in Gaza in view of the Israeli attacks.
noLabel	One of the United States' first major applications of affirmative action, the Philadelphia Plan, was enacted by the Nixon administration in 1969.	The Revised Philadelphia Plan was controversial for its use of strict quotas and timetables to combat the institutionalized discrimination in the hiring practices of Philadelphia's skilled trade unions. 
noLabel	The spillway can be gradually eroded by water flow, including cavitation or turbulence of the water flowing over the spillway, leading to its failure.	It was the inadequate design of the spillway which led to the 1889 over-topping of the South Fork Dam in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, resulting in the infamous Johnstown Flood (the "great flood of 1889"). 
noLabel	In August 2009, Kaupthing Bank secured a court order preventing Iceland's national broadcaster, RÚV, from broadcasting a risk analysis report showing the bank's substantial exposure to debt default risk.	This information had been leaked by a whistleblower to WikiLeaks and remained available on the WikiLeaks site; faced with an injunction minutes before broadcast, the channel ran with a screen grab of the WikiLeaks site instead of the scheduled piece on the bank.
noLabel	Positive Youth Development, or PYD as it's come to be known as, focuses on the strengths of an individual as opposed to the older methods which tend to focus on the "potential" weaknesses that have yet to be shown.	The Family and Youth Services Bureau has found that individuals who developed life skills in a positive, rather than preventitive, manner feel a greater sense of competence, usefulness, power, and belonging. 
noLabel	Colorado Charter schools enroll: 57.7% white (not Hispanic), 28.6% Hispanic, 6.7% Black (not Hispanic), 3.6% Asian or Pacific Islander, 0.8% Native American, and 2.6% two or more ethnicities.	Traditional Colorado public schools enroll: 56.8% white (not Hispanic), 31.8% Hispanic, 4.6% Black (not Hispanic), 3.1% Asian or Pacific Islander, 0.9% Native American, and 2.8% two or more ethnicities.
noLabel	During World War II, in Kosovo & Metohija, approximately 10,000 Serbs were killed by Nazi German soldiers and Albanian colloborators., and about 80 to 100,000 or more were ethnically cleansed .	After World War II, the new communist authorities of Yugoslavia banned Serbians and Montenegrins expelled during the war from returning to their abandoned estates . 
noLabel	In later testimony before the United States Congress, Koop stated that the quality of existing evidence was too poor to prepare a report "that could withstand scientific and statistical scrutiny."	Koop noted that "..&nbsp;there is no doubt about the fact that some people have severe psychological effects after abortion, but anecdotes do not make good scientific material.
noLabel	Dawkins came to prominence with his 1976 book The Selfish Gene, which popularised the gene-centered view of evolution and introduced the term meme.	In 1982 he introduced an influential concept into evolutionary biology, presented in his book The Extended Phenotype, that the phenotypic effects of a gene are not necessarily limited to an organism's body, but can stretch far into the environment, including the bodies of other organisms . 
noLabel	As the rewards for victory have spiked, a growing network of underground pharmacologists have concocted drugs too new to be detected in addition to masking agents for the old drugs.	This competitive cat-and-mouse game, risky, expensive and hypocritical, has allowed athletes to continue seeking the edge while management kept the appearance of control.
noLabel	In 1933, a series of laws were passed which contained "Aryan paragraphs" to exclude Jews from key areas: the Law for the Restoration of the Professional Civil Service, the first anti-Semitic law passed in the Third Reich; the Physicians' Law; and the Farm Law, forbidding Jews from owning farms or taking part in agriculture.	Jewish lawyers were disbarred, and in Dresden, Jewish lawyers and judges were dragged out of their offices and courtrooms, and beaten .
noLabel	People must have come not only to distrust the safety of the technology but also the authority of those who have assured them so confidently that nuclear power is safe.	In this sense people distrust the entire nuclear enterprise -- not only its technology, but the public and private organizations, the political parties, and those often prestigious scientists who advocate and assist in the development of nuclear power .
noLabel	On IGN's "Top 100 Games Of All Time" list in 2007, the highest ranking RPG is Final Fantasy VI at 9th place; and in both the 2006 and 2008 IGN Readers' Choice polls, Chrono Trigger is the top ranked RPG, in 2nd place .	Final Fantasy VI is also the top ranked RPG in Game Informers list of its 200 best games of all time list, in 8th place; and is also one of the eight games to get a cover for the magazine's 200th issue .
noLabel	The strategic utility of the uppercut depends on its ability to "lift" the opponent's body, setting it off-balance for successive attacks.	The right uppercut followed by a left hook is a deadly combination employing the uppercut to lift the opponent's chin into a vulnerable position, then the hook to knock the opponent out. 
noLabel	In his 1976 book The Selfish Gene, Richard Dawkins coined the term memes to describe informational units that can be transmitted culturally, analogous to genes .	He later used this concept in the essay "Viruses of the Mind" to explain the persistence of religious ideas in human culture . 
noLabel	South Park episodes "200" and "201", broadcast in April 2010, featured a character in a bear costume, who various other characters stated was Muhammad .	The South Park episode sparked statements from the extremist website Revolution Muslim, which posted a picture of the partially decapitated body of the Dutch filmmaker, Theo van Gogh, with a statement declaring that Parker and Stone could meet a similar fate.
noLabel	The biomass plantations are supplying energy on a commercial basis, such as in Brazil, the Philippines and Sweden, it can be shown that a combination of government policies and/or high conventional energy prices have stimulated the use of short-rotation plantations for energy.	Brazil used tax incentives beginning in the mid-1960s to initiate a reforestation program to provide for industrial wood energy and wood product needs.
noLabel	In an election for a legislative body, each voter in a given geographically-defined electoral district votes for one candidate from a list of candidates competing to represent that district.	Under the plurality system, the winner of the election acts as representative of the entire electoral district, and serves with representatives of other electoral districts. 
noLabel	" Other scholars suggest that despite the criticism, "Congress is a remarkably resilient institution .. its place in the political process is not threatened .. it is rich in resources" and that most members behave ethically .	They contend that "Congress is easy to dislike and often difficult to defend" and this perception is exacerbated because many challengers running for Congress run against Congress, which is an "old form of American politics" that further undermines Congress's reputation with the public: . 
noLabel	The term "partial-birth abortion" is primarily used in political discourse — chiefly regarding the legality of abortion in the United States.	 The term is not recognized as a medical term by the American Medical Association nor the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists .
noLabel	Cantor confirmed to a reporter on October 3 that the bill as a complete package was effectively "dead" and that only parts of the American Jobs Act would be passed.	With Obama stating a willingness to consider a piecemeal approach on the legislation, Cantor said "At this point I think that Washington has become so dysfunctional that we've got to start focusing on the incremental progress we can make.
noLabel	In September 2009, POGO conducted an investigation into Armorgroup, a private security contractor in charge of protecting the U.S. embassy in Kabul, and uncovered and released documents, photos, and videos depicting drunken behavior, nudity, and hazing among the guards .	This led to the dismissal of several managers and eight guards, the resignation of an additional two guards, and ultimately the cancellation of the United States military's contract with Armorgroup .
noLabel	Given the political situation prevailing in the subsequent decades, little progress was made in nuclear disarmament until the end of the Cold War in 1991.	Parties to the PTBT held an amendment conference that year to discuss a proposal to convert the Treaty into an instrument banning all nuclear-weapon tests; with strong support from the UN General Assembly, negotiations for a comprehensive test-ban treaty began in 1993.
noLabel	Protesters who refused to go to the free speech zone were often arrested and charged with trespassing, disorderly conduct and/or resisting arrest .	A seldom-used federal law making it unlawful to "willfully and knowingly to enter or remain in .. any posted, cordoned off, or otherwise restricted area of a building or grounds where the President or other person protected by the Secret Service is or will be temporarily visiting" has also been invoked .
noLabel	The real story is about the regrettable messages that this scandal sends to our youngsters, who seek nothing more than fair and ethical competition.	It is more than a tragic story of a gifted sprinter, Kelli White, who tested positive for the stimulant modafanil and acknowledged using undetectable steroids and EPO, the blood booster erythropoietin.
noLabel	For centuries, Western religious groups, who often accompanied and financed early explorers, colonists and conquerors, also contributed money and services to help people in need around the world.	Today, many so-called faith-based nongovernment organizations, or NGOs, exist to provide development or disaster-relief services in developing countries, often with significant backing from the taxpayer dollars of Western donor governments. 
noLabel	Quebec differs from the rest of the nine provinces in that it's policy focuses on "interculturalism"- rather then multiculturalism, where diversity is strongly encouraged, but only under the notion that it is within the framework that establishes supremacy of the French language and the French culture .	In 1990, Quebec released a White_paper called Lets Build Quebec Together: A Policy Statement on Integration and Immigration which reinforced three main points
noLabel	In 2010, Bradley Manning, an Army private who allegedly leaked information including the United States diplomatic cables leak to Julian Assange and Wikileaks, was charged under the Espionage Act .	The charge is technically under Article 134 of the UCMJ (Uniform Code of Military Justice) which incorporates parts of the U.S. Code . 
noLabel	Further doubt is cast on Snell's story by the lack of evidence of large numbers of Japanese scientists leaving Japan for Korea and never returning .	Snell's claims were repeated by Robert K. Wilcox in his 1985 book Japan's Secret War: Japan's Race Against Time to Build Its Own Atomic Bomb.
noLabel	In instant runoff voting, as with other ranked election methods, each voter ranks the list of candidates in order of preference.	Under a common ballot layout, the voter marks a '1' beside the most preferred candidate, a '2' beside the second-most preferred, and so forth, in ascending order. 
noLabel	These devices prevented an attack until a launch code had been sent by the Chiefs of Staff on behalf of the President.	The UK took a decision not to install Trident CCDs or their equivalent on the grounds that an aggressor might be able to wipe out the British chain of command before a launch order had been sent . 
noLabel	Israeli authorities said that they wish to avoid clashes with the activists, and promised flotilla organizers that if they dock at the Israeli port of Ashdod, humanitarian aid would be delivered by Israel directly to Gaza .	It warned the flotilla organizers that if they were to attempt to break the blockade, it would intercept the ships and that Israeli forces would defend themselves if they were attacked .
noLabel	After recent revelations about the use of performance-enhancing drugs in football, baseball and track and field, 43 percent of those polled said they believed that at least half of professional athletes in the United States use steroids.	In comparison, 18 percent of those surveyed said they believed that at least half of American Olympic athletes use banned performance-enhancing substances.
noLabel	"Fat Man" is the codename for the atomic bomb that was detonated over Nagasaki, Japan, by the United States on August 9, 1945.	It was the second of only two nuclear weapons to be used in warfare to date (the other being "Little Boy"), and its detonation caused the third man-made nuclear explosion.
noLabel	On 28 February, Irving once again questioned the Holocaust, asking "Given the ruthless efficiency of the Germans, if there was an extermination programme to kill all the Jews, how come so many survived?"	He claimed that the number of people gassed in Auschwitz was relatively small, and that his earlier claims that there had been no gassing at all had been a "methodological error".
noLabel	Economist Paul Krugman wrote in 2007: "Supply side doctrine, which claimed without evidence that tax cuts would pay for themselves, never got any traction in the world of professional economic research, even among conservatives.	" Economist Nouriel Roubini wrote in October 2010 that the Republican Party was "trapped in a belief in voodoo economics, the economic equivalent of creationism" while the Democratic administration was unwilling to improve the tax system via a carbon tax or value-added tax .
noLabel	White births (which account for over 80%) continued to show a statistically significant decline, while other racial groups showed non-statistically significant declines (Japanese, Native American, other), little or no change (black), or an increase (Chinese).	Finally, when the white births were divided into Hispanic and non-Hispanic (possible since 1982), it was found that both white subgroups suggest an increase in male births."
noLabel	According to Newsweek reporter Fareed Zakaria, the Washington establishment has "gotten comfortable with the exercise of American hegemony and treats compromise as treason and negotiations as appeasement" and added "This is not foreign policy; it's imperial policy.	" Allies were critical of a unilateral sensibility to US foreign policy, and showed displeasure by voting against the US in the United Nations in 2001 .
noLabel	After D-Day, General Groves ordered a team of scientists&mdash;Project Alsos&mdash;to follow eastward-moving victorious Allied troops into Europe to assess the status of the German nuclear program (and to prevent the westward-moving Russians from gaining any materials or scientific manpower).	They concluded that, while Germany had an atomic bomb program headed by Werner Heisenberg, the government had not made a significant investment in the project, and it had been nowhere near success. 
noLabel	Also filing amicus briefs against the State of California was a coalition of other states including Rhode Island, Arkansas, Georgia, Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Utah and Washington, as well as Puerto Rico, which stated the law was unnecessary as no evidence linked video games to youth violence and the voluntary ESRB system was working well .	Also submitting an amicus brief opposing the law was a coalition of 82 psychologists, criminologists, medical scientists and media researchers concerned that the State of California had misrepresented the science on video games . 
noLabel	Since the fermentation process is an evolutionary back up, turned on during stress, the cells would die after a few days.	In 2000, a two-stage process was developed to take the cells in and out of anaerobic conditions and therefore keep them alive .
noLabel	One reform concept is the graduated random presidential primary system, variations of which have been referred to as the American Plan or the California Plan.	This plan starts with small primaries, and gradually moves up to larger ones, in 10 steps, with states chosen at random.
noLabel	The net capacity factor of a power plant is the ratio of the actual output of a power plant over a period of time and its potential output if it had operated at full nameplate capacity the entire time.	To calculate the capacity factor, take the total amount of energy the plant produced during a period of time and divide by the amount of energy the plant would have produced at full capacity.
noLabel	On April 1, 2011, Goldstone wrote an op-ed that appeared in the Washington Post in which he stated that he no longer believes the report's finding that Israel targeted Palestinian civilians as a matter of policy, the most serious accusation the report made against Israel .	The three other signatories to the UNHRC report, Hina Jilani, Christine Chinkin and Desmond Travers, co-authored an op-ed that appeared in The Guardian in which they replied that there was no evidence that refutes any of the report's findings .
noLabel	In his final November 2009 statement to the IAEA Board of Governors, Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei said the Agency continued to verify the non-diversion of declared nuclear material in Iran, but that other issues of concern had reached a "dead end" unless Iran were to fully cooperate with the agency.	ElBaradei stated it would be helpful if "we were able to share with Iran more of the material that is at the centre of these concerns", and also said it would be helpful if Iran fully implemented the Subsidiary Arrangements to its Safeguards Agreement and fully implemented the Additional Protocol.
noLabel	Under its terms, the Rafah crossing with Egypt was to be reopened, with transits monitored by the Palestinian National Authority and the European Union.	Only people with Palestinian ID, or foreign nationals, by exception, in certain categories, subject to Israeli oversight, were permitted to cross in and out.
noLabel	and he wrote and introduced the Iraq War De-Escalation Act of 2007 which would have stopped the Surge and started to pull American troops out of Iraq in 2007 .	He continues to criticize the Surge because he says it has not achieved political reconciliation, has overtaxed the military and diverted focus from Afghanistan and Pakistan, which he considers to be the central front in the War on Terror .
noLabel	After the Winter of Discontent and the subsequent fall of the Labour government, many corners of the public and media believed that the trade unions were running the Labour Party - an image which Neil Kinnock was keen to shake off after becoming party leader in 1983.	By the time Labour returned to government in 1997 after 18 years in opposition, Tony Blair (leader since 1994) had abandoned the Labour policy of going back on Tory-led union reforms, as well as ending the commitment of nationalisation of industries and utilities . 
noLabel	: The Greek foreign ministry stated that "Greece's positions on the need to lift the Gaza blockade and improve the humanitarian situation in the region are well known", but added that the flotilla "does not deal with the substance of the humanitarian problem in Gaza", and urged Greek citizens as well as Greek-registered vessels not to participate in it .	The Greek government later made it illegal for ships to sail from Greece to the Gaza Strip, citing safety concerns (see above) .
noLabel	Overpopulation is an issue that threatens the state of the environment in the above-mentioned ways and therefore societies must make a change in order to reverse some of the environmental effects brought on by current social norms.	In societies like China, the government has put policies in place that regulate the number of children allowed to a couple.
noLabel	Where a dam serves multiple purposes, a hydroelectric plant may be added with relatively low construction cost, providing a useful revenue stream to offset the costs of dam operation.	It has been calculated that the sale of electricity from the Three Gorges Dam will cover the construction costs after 5 to 8 years of full generation .
noLabel	As of April 2011, the Danish wind farm Horns Rev 2(the world's largest when it was inaugurated in September 2009 comprising 91 Siemens SWT-2.3-93 wind turbines each of 2.3 MW) with a nominal total capacity of 209 MW, has the best capacity factor of any offshore wind farm at 46.7% having produced over 1.5 years 1,278 GW·h .	The record for an onshore wind farm is held by Burradale, which reached an annual capacity factor of 57.9% for 2005 .
noLabel	Information about a person's financial transactions, including the amount of assets, positions held in stocks or funds, outstanding debts, and purchases can be sensitive.	If criminals gain access to information such as a person's accounts or credit card numbers, that person could become the victim of fraud or identity theft.
noLabel	Stroke - There is a link between obesity and stroke; this is particularly the case for people whose fat is situated predominantly in the abdominal region.	Overweight people are more likely to have high blood cholesterol levels and high blood pressure, but these associations are not the only explanations for the greater stroke rate. 
noLabel	George Washington's Mountain Road Lottery in 1768 was unsuccessful, but these rare lottery tickets bearing Washington's signature became collectors' items; one example sold for about $15,000 in 2007.	Washington was also a manager for Col. Bernard Moore's "Slave Lottery" in 1769, which advertised land and slaves as prizes in the Virginia Gazette. 
noLabel	At first, this shock wave is inside the surface of the developing fireball, which is created in a volume of air by the X-rays.	However, within a fraction of a second the dense shock front obscures the fireball, causing the characteristic double pulse of light seen from a nuclear detonation.
noLabel	Dr. John Harvey Kellogg recommended circumcision of boys caught masturbating, writing: "A remedy for masturbation which is almost always successful in small boys is circumcision, especially when there is any degree of phimosis.	The operation should be performed by a surgeon without administering anaesthetic, as the pain attending the operation will have a salutary effect upon the mind, especially if it be connected with the idea of punishment."
noLabel	Massachusetts’ Rufus King assessed the Convention as a creature of the states, independent of the Articles Congress, submitting its proposal to Congress only to satisfy forms.	Though amendments were debated, they were all defeated, and on September 28, 1787, the Articles Congress resolved “unanimously” to transmit the Constitution to state legislatures for submitting to a ratification convention according to the Constitutional procedure .
noLabel	The heavy crude oil or crude bitumen extracted from oil sands is a viscous, solid or semisolid form that does not easily flow at normal oil pipeline temperatures, making it difficult to transport to market and expensive to process into gasoline, diesel fuel, and other products.	It must be either mixed with lighter petroleum (either liquid or gas) or chemically split before it can be transported by pipeline for upgrading into synthetic crude oil. 
noLabel	The Israeli government said it would accept a limited role by non-Israelis in the investigation of the raid, but rejected an independent international inquiry, and said the country is able to conduct a credible review on its own .	Analysts suggested that after the controversial UN-sponsored Goldstone Report, Israel lacks faith that the United Nations can do a credible job of investigating events related to Israel .
noLabel	The HPI (Human Poverty Index) is used to calculate the percentage of people in a country who live in relative poverty.	In order to better differentiate the number of people in abnormally poor living conditions the HPI-1 is used in developing countries, and the HPI-2 is used in developed countries.
noLabel	This pressure, or strain if you will, is caused by the discrepancy between culturally defined goals and the institutionalized means available to achieve these goals.	To illustrate this Merton argues that the dominant cultural goal in the U.S is the acquisition of wealth, as a message was depicted that happiness often equated with material success which is often associated with wealth.
noLabel	A year and a half before the fight, Williams had been shot in the stomach at point-blank range by a Texas policeman.	As a result, Williams went into the fight missing one kidney and of his small intestine, and with a shriveled left leg from nerve damage from the bullet.
noLabel	The Israeli Orient Research Group reported that 78 of the 89 killed during this first IAF strike were terror operatives, many of them belonging to the militant group, al-Qassam Brigades.	The Jerusalem Centre for Public Affairs further reported that 286 of the 343 police officers killed during the offensive were members of terror organizations and that another 27 fighters belonged to units undergoing infantry training.
noLabel	Similarly, 30 percent of adults under 30 are not disturbed by Olympic athletes using steroids, compared with 20 percent among those polled who were 30 and older.	If it is a full-blown illegal steroid, then I guess I am against that, said John Bachhuber, 28, a steel industry worker in Prairie du Sac, Wis.
noLabel	The difficult issue of the supply of light water reactors to replace North Korea's indigenous nuclear power plant program, as per the 1994 Agreed Framework, was left to be resolved in future discussions .	On the next day North Korea reiterated its known view that until it is supplied with a light water reactor it will not dismantle its nuclear arsenal or rejoin the NPT . 
noLabel	An avid football fan, Louis has practiced technique since the age of 4, but, at 4 feet 6 inches and 62 pounds, he remains one of the smallest players on his pee-wee team.	His father said he had come to wonder whether his son would be able to compete at a high level without taking performance-enhancing drugs.
noLabel	There are more hate crimes against whites than against Hispanics, Asians, American Indians, and multiracial groups - a statistically expected trend given that there far more whites than other ethnic groups put together.	By contrast, the National Criminal Victimization Survey, finds that per capita rates of hate crime victimization varied little by race or ethnicity, and the differences are not statistically significant . 
noLabel	In recent years, efforts have been made by the international community to encourage countries to dissociate and incriminate as separate offences, active and passive bribery.	Active bribery can be defined for instance as the promising, offering or giving by any person, directly or indirectly, of any undue advantage [to any public official], for himself or herself or for anyone else, for him or her to act or refrain from acting in the exercise of his or her functions.
noLabel	Smoking may be up to five times more prevalent amongst men than women in some communities, although the gender gap usually declines with younger age .	In some developed countries smoking rates for men have peaked and begun to decline, while for women they continue to climb . 
noLabel	Gay males may regard anal penetration as resulting in loss of virginity, but not oral sex, and lesbians may regard oral sex or fingering as loss of virginity .	Some lesbians argue that, according to the traditional definition – penile-vaginal penetration – they are virgins, while other gays and lesbians argue that the term "virginity" is useless to them because of its prevailing heterosexist definition . 
noLabel	American public policy analyst Randal O'Toole of the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, has argued that sprawl, thanks to the automobile, gave rise to affordable suburban neighborhoods for middle class and lower class individuals, including non-whites.	He notes that efforts to combat sprawl often result in subsidizing development in wealthier and whiter neighborhoods while condemning and demolishing poorer minority neighborhoods .
noLabel	Beginning February 26, 2009 an Economic Intelligence Briefing was added to the daily intelligence briefings prepared for the President of the United States.	This addition reflects the assessment of United States intelligence agencies that the global financial crisis presents a serious threat to international stability . 
noLabel	The Children's Defense Fund has created a campaign to try to halt the spread of this phenomenon that is ruining the lives of so many poverty-stricken families and minorities .	The campaign is called the 'Cradle to Prison Pipeline Campaign' and was launched in 20008 in Washington DC, at Howard University .
noLabel	Some national constitutions in effect define their governments' "core businesses" as being the provision of such things as justice, tranquility, defense, and general welfare.	These governments' direct provision of security, stability, and safety, is intended to be done for the common good (in the public interest) with a long-term (for posterity) perspective.
noLabel	Nonverbal learning disability: Nonverbal learning disabilities often manifest in motor clumsiness, poor visual-spatial skills, problematic social relationships, difficulty with math, and poor organizational skills.	These individuals often have specific strengths in the verbal domains, including early speech, large vocabulary, early reading and spelling skills, excellent rote-memory and auditory retention, and eloquent self-expression .
noLabel	On September 14, 2007, Palin signed an administrative order creating a Climate Change Sub-Cabinet charged with preparing a climate change strategy for Alaska .	Palin ignored requests to establish an Alaska Office on Climate Change, an Alaska Climate Response Fund, and emissions reduction targets .
noLabel	Rangel also became a protége of Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill, who made him Deputy Majority Whip that same year .	In the United States presidential election, 1984, Rangel supported former Vice President Walter Mondale, rather than the primary campaign of Jesse Jackson. 
noLabel	The Roe effect is an hypothesis which suggests that since supporters of abortion rights cause the erosion of their own political base by having fewer children, the practice of abortion will eventually lead to the restriction or illegalization of abortion.	The legalized abortion and crime effect is another controversial theory that posits legal abortion reduces crime, because unwanted children are more likely to become criminals. 
noLabel	In East Asia the World Bank reported that "The poverty headcount rate at the $2-a-day level is estimated to have fallen to about 27 percent [in 2007], down from 29.5 percent in 2006 and 69 percent in 1990.	" In Sub-Saharan Africa extreme poverty went up from 41 percent in 1981 to 46 percent in 2001, which combined with growing population increased the number of people living in extreme poverty from 231 million to 318 million . 
noLabel	An estimated 30% of the deforestation is due to small farmers and the intensity within the area that they inhabit is greater than the area occupied by the medium and large ranchers who possess 89% of the Legal Amazon’s private land.	This emphasizes the importance of using previously cleared land for agricultural use, rather the typical easiest political path of distributing still-forested areas .
noLabel	Dereje carried out a study in the coffee forest areas of southwest Ethiopia in order to estimate forest cover change between 1973 and 2005 .	The study area covered an area of 3,940&nbsp;km² with 2,808&nbsp;km² of high-forests (71% of the area) extended over five woredas (Bench, Sheko, Yeki, Guraferda, and Godere) in the two regional states of the Gambela and Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Regions.
noLabel	Prostitution is sinful for both the prostitute and the customer; it reduces a person to an instrument of sexual pleasure, violating human dignity and harming society as well.	The gravity of the sinfulness is less for prostitutes who are forced into the act by destitution, blackmail or social pressure .
noLabel	In some countries which have laws on racial equality, affirmative action is rendered illegal because it does not treat all races equally.	This approach of equal treatment is sometimes described as being "color blind", in hopes that it is effective against discrimination without engaging in reverse discrimination. 
noLabel	The war provoked mixed reactions inside Israel, with the Jewish majority largely supporting it, and the Arab minority mostly opposing it.	A poll taken on January 8, 2009, showed that 91% of the Jewish public supported the war, and 4% opposed it, while a separate poll conducted from January 4–6 showed a 94% approval of the war among Jews and 85% disapproval among Israeli Arabs . 
noLabel	In further work Hayward reintroduces the Freudian term 'narcissism' to explain the insecure yet aggressive, acquisitive sentiments and motivations behind criminality.	In Criminal Identities and Consumer Culture, Steve Hall, Simon Winlow and Craig Ancrum draw upon Continental philosophy and Lacanian psychoanalysis to take late-modern hybrid theories to a new level of sophistication as they explain how the dynamic tension between inclusion and exclusion prolongs the narcissistic subject throughout the life-course in an aggressive struggle for identities of social distinction expressed by the acquisition and display of consumer culture's status-symbols.
noLabel	In 2006, the George W. Bush administration expanded abstinence programs from teens to adults, by introducing programs to encourage unmarried adults to remain abstinent until marriage .	Family-planning advocates and researchers denounced the program as unrealistic, due to the rising age of first-time marriage in the United States .
noLabel	Ehrman writes that this seems to be based on some notion of free will although this argument is never explicitly mentioned in the Bible.	Another argument is that suffering ultimately achieves a greater good, possibly for persons other than the sufferer, that would not have been possible otherwise.
noLabel	Researchers at the University of Dundee found significant improvements in bar workers' lung function and inflammatory markers attributed to the introduction of Ireland's smoking ban; the benefits were particularly pronounced for bar workers with asthma .	The Bar Workers' Health and Environment Tobacco Smoke Exposure (BHETSE) study found the percentage of all workers reporting respiratory symptoms, such as wheezing, shortness of breath, cough and phlegm production, fell from 69% to 57% .
noLabel	Amid the presence of nuclear-powered U.S. vessels and concerns that the government allowed nuclear-armed warships into Japanese ports (later confirmed), this resolution became the first major application of the three non-nuclear principles.	The strict policy has become known as the "Kobe Formula", and since its inception several thousand Japanese municipalities have adopted similar nuclear-free resolutions .
noLabel	One study found that implementation of mandatory drug testing for truckers contributed to a 9–10 percent reduction in truck accident fatalities.	The results of federally mandating drug testing were similar to the effects of simply extending to the trucking industry the right to perform drug tests, and it has been argued that the latter approach would have been as effective at lower cost .
noLabel	In modern times, the argument has been phrased in biological terms, claiming that loss of semen through ejaculation results in a depletion of vital nutrients such as lecithin and phosphorus, which are also found at high levels in the brain.	Conservation of the semen allegedly allows it to be reabsorbed back into the bloodstream and aid in the healthy development of the body.
noLabel	Opponents of certain privatizations believe that certain public goods and services should remain primarily in the hands of government in order to ensure that everyone in society has access to them (such as law enforcement, basic health care, and basic education).	There is a positive externality when the government provides society at large with public goods and services such as defense and disease control.
noLabel	In an article in Moment magazine in February 2011, Paula Kweskin, in discussing so-called “honor” killings taking place in the Palestinian Authority, writes that two-thirds of all murders in the Palestinian Authority and Gaza are “honor” killings.	These crimes go unpunished and laws grant impunity to those who kill based on “family honor.” In interviews and press releases on their websites, many NGOs, including Badil, the Palestinian Center for Human Rights, and the Women’s Center for Legal Aid and Counseling, have decried “honor” killings and the lack of legal protection for Palestinian women; yet these NGOs are silent when given a forum at CEDAW to address these problems . 
noLabel	The Paratroopers, Golani, and Givati brigades simultaneously entered the Gaza Strip from several unexpected directions to avoid reported booby traps while also outflanking opposing forces.	The 401st Armored Brigade used Merkava Mark IV tanks to quickly block access from Rafah and Khan Yunis to Gaza City which cut supply lines to Hamas from the south .
noLabel	In the United Kingdom, anabolic steroids are classified as class C drugs for their illegal abuse potential, which puts them in the same class as benzodiazepines.	Anabolic steroids are in Schedule 4, which is divided in 2 parts; Part 1 contains most of the benzodiazepines and Part 2 contains the anabolic and androgenic steroids.
noLabel	The two-round system is known as runoff voting in the United States, where the second round is known as a runoff election.	Runoff voting is also sometimes used as a generic term to describe any system involving a number of rounds of voting, with eliminations after each round.
noLabel	Palin is opposed to abortion in almost all cases, including rape and incest, but not if the life of the mother is endangered .	In 2006, while running for governor, Palin was asked what she would do if her own daughter were raped and became pregnant; she responded that she would "choose life.
noLabel	Public health practitioners have attempted to look at drug abuse from a broader perspective than the individual, emphasizing the role of society, culture and availability.	Rather than accepting the loaded terms alcohol or drug "abuse," many public health professionals have adopted phrases such as "substance and alcohol type problems" or "harmful/problematic use" of drugs. 
noLabel	One monk who was on the march told the Democratic Voice of Burma, a Norway-based radio station run by dissident journalists: "We are continuing our protest from last month as we have not yet achieved any of the demands we asked for.	"Our demands are for lower commodity prices, national reconciliation and immediate release of [pro-democracy leader] Aung San Suu Kyi and all the political prisoners."
noLabel	In Australia vocational education and training is mostly post-secondary and provided through the vocational education and training (VET) system by registered training organisations.	This system encompasses both public, TAFE, and private providers in a national training framework consisting of the , Australian Qualifications Framework and  which define the assessment standards for the different vocational qualifications. 
noLabel	This policy of "nuclear opacity" has been interpreted as an attempt to get the benefits of deterrence with a minimum political cost .	In the late 1960s, Israeli Ambassador to the US Yitzhak Rabin informed the United States State Department that "introducing" nuclear weapons would constitute testing and public declaration, and mere possession would be excluded from the pledge .
noLabel	Ann Woolner wrote in an editorial in the Bloomberg publication that Wikileaks' publication of the documents is legally allowed in the United States because the group did not solicit the documents .	Asking someone to leak secret information, "with intent or reason to believe that the information to be obtained is to be used to the injury of the United States", would violate the United States' Espionage Act of 1917 In violation of the post-World War I accord signed into law by then President Woodrow Wilson .
noLabel	According to a review by Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan group, Wasilla (a town of 6,700 residents) benefited from $26.9 million in earmarks in Palin's final four years in office .	According to reporting by ABC News, however, Wasilla only directly received $7.95 million, and the $26.9 million figure refers to the amount the entire Matanuska-Susitna Borough received . 
noLabel	Opinion was evenly split between Internet users who felt that “the internet is a safe place to express my opinions” (48%) and those who disagreed (49%).	Somewhat surprisingly users in Germany and France agreed the least, followed by users in highly filtered countries such as China and South Korea, while users in Egypt, India and Kenya agreed more strongly .
noLabel	The most interesting criticism of this theory is that it may breed a fortress society where everyone is locked in his or her homes to prevent crime.	At the community level, Neighborhood Watch schemes encourage people to monitor their neighbourhoods and to report suspicious incidents to the police.
noLabel	In October 2010, Michael Mariotte, executive director of the Nuclear Information and Resource Service anti-nuclear group, predicted that the U.S. nuclear industry will not experience a nuclear renaissance, for the most simple of reasons: “nuclear reactors make no economic sense”.	The economic slump has driven down electricity demand and the price of competing energy sources, and Congress has failed of to pass climate change legislation, making nuclear economics very difficult . 
noLabel	In this chapter, Hitchens writes that Abrahamic religions are used to make people feel like lowly sinners, encouraging low self-esteem, while at the same time leading them to believe that their creator genuinely cares for them, thus inflating their sense of self-importance.	He says that superstition to some extent has a "natural advantage", being that it was contrived many centuries before the modern age of human reason and scientific understanding, and discusses a few examples as well as so-called miracles. 
noLabel	|- The New Zealand government, which has been reluctant to speak out on the conflict initially, issued a statement on January 7 saying it was "deeply worried by the mounting humanitarian crisis in Gaza as a result of the continuing Israeli ground offensive".	Foreign Minister Murray McCully said that attacks on United Nations facilities, including schools, in the Gaza Strip were of grave concern and underlined the need for both sides to agree to an immediate ceasefire.
noLabel	Anthony Gregory has written that right-wing, or conservative libertarianism, "can refer to any number of varying and at times mutually exclusive political orientations."	He listed some as: being "interested mainly in 'economic freedoms'"; following the "conservative lifestyle of right-libertarians"; seeking "others to embrace their own conservative lifestyle"; considering big business "as a great victim of the state"; favoring a "strong national defense"; having "an Old Right opposition to empire."
noLabel	In the early years of automobile development, a group of capital monopolists owned the rights to a 2-cycle gasoline engine patent originally filed by George B. Selden .	By controlling this patent, they were able to monopolize the industry and force car manufacturers to adhere to their demands, or risk a lawsuit.
noLabel	Sex selection after implantation can be performed by prenatal sex discernment, followed by sex-selective abortion of any offspring of the unwanted sex.	For prenatal sex discernment, a blood test can be taken from the mother for testing of small amounts of fetal DNA within it, and has been estimated to be reliable more than 98% of the time, as long as the samples are taken after the seventh week of pregnancy .
noLabel	The societal acceptance of birth control required the separation of sexual activity from procreation, making birth control a highly controversial subject in some countries at some points in the 20th century .	Birth control has become a major theme in feminist politics; reproduction issues are cited as examples of women's powerlessness to exercise their rights .
noLabel	This is an important effect in all reactors where fast neutrons from the fissile isotope can cause the fission of nearby 238U nuclei, which means that some small part of the 238U is "burned-up" in all nuclear fuels, especially in fast breeder reactors that operate with higher-energy neutrons.	That same fast-fission effect is used to augment the energy released by modern thermonuclear weapons, by jacketing the weapon with 238U to react with neutrons released by nuclear fusion at the center of the device.
noLabel	As of 2006, to produce one barrel of oil from the oil sands released almost of greenhouse gases with total emissions estimated to be per year by 2015 .	However, a study by IHS CERA founds that fuels made from Canadian oil sands "result in significantly lower greenhouse gas emissions than many commonly cited estimates.. Oil sands products imported to the United States result in GHG emissions that are, on average, six percent higher than the average crude consumed in the country.
noLabel	Nelson expressed strong support for the Stupak-Pitts Amendment to the House of Representatives' 2009 Affordable Health Care for America Act, which placed limits on taxpayer-funded abortions .	However, he lost the support of Nebraska Right to Life after he voted in favor of the Senate's version of health-care legislation, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, which did not contain the Stupak language .
noLabel	The EIS was submitted in 2004 stating that the project would bring many benefits to the people of Cape Cod and had positive environmental impacts.	After the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Department of the Interior assumed main responsibility for granting a lease to the project and acknowledged the need for a new EIS .
noLabel	From the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 until the late 2001 US-led invasion, about six million Afghan refugees have fled to neighboring Pakistan (mainly NWFP) and Iran, making Afghanistan the largest refugee-producing country.	Since early 2002, more than 5 million Afghan refugees have repatriated through the UNHCR from both Pakistan and Iran back to their native country, Afghanistan .
noLabel	A signature element of the law imposes new warnings and labels on tobacco packaging and their advertisements, with the goal of discouraging minors and young adults from smoking.	The Act also bans flavored cigarettes, places limits on the advertising of tobacco products to minors and requires tobacco companies to seek FDA approval for new tobacco products.
noLabel	As of 7 December 2011, eight Annex 2 states have not ratified the treaty: China, Egypt, Iran, Israel and the United States have signed but not ratified the Treaty; India, North Korea and Pakistan have not signed it.	In 1998 India said it would only sign the treaty if the United States presented a schedule for eliminating its nuclear stockpile, a condition the United States rejected .
noLabel	On 30 September 2009, at the UNHRC's twelfth session, the United States and Egypt introduced a resolution which condemned inter alia "racial and religious stereotyping.	" The European Union's representative, Jean-Baptiste Mattei (France), said the European Union "rejected and would continue to reject the concept of defamation of religions."
noLabel	(The Center for Public Integrity shows "less than $10,000" in fees for both 2003 and 2004.; the difference was presumably part of the underreporting that was identified in June 2006.)	Since contracting with Copeland Lowery, the town has received nearly $4.4 million in federal funds, with money going toward road improvements, better flood control and two solar projects for municipal buildings .
noLabel	The IDF released a video taken by an UAV drone during the war purportedly showing a Hamas militant launching a rocket from a roof of a residential house and then leaving surrounded by children to avoid being targeted by the IDF .Later, the IDF and Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs compiled a film accusing Hamas of a systematical use of civilian infrastructure and civilians as a human shield.	The film includes photos and videos documenting Hamas' uses of a human shield, as well as incitement of children and using them for paramilitary activity and even as suicide bombers .Israeli Air Force videos allegedly show terrorists using groups of children as cover to escape from combat areas and joining groups of children . 
noLabel	Many U.S. states now require passing a high school graduation examination to ensure that students across all ethnic, gender and income groups possess the same skills.	In states such as Washington, critics have questioned whether this ensures success for all or just creates massive failure (as only half of all 10th graders have demonstrated they can meet the standards) . 
noLabel	Under minimalism, democracy is a system of government in which citizens give teams of political leaders the right to rule in periodic elections.	According to this minimalist conception, citizens cannot and should not “rule” because, for example, on most issues, most of the time, they have no clear views or their views are not well-founded.
noLabel	Even those commodities providing for the most mundane necessities of daily life must be imbued with symbolic qualities and culturally endowed meanings via the 'magic system' of advertising .	In this way and by altering the context in which advertisements appear, things 'can be made to mean 'just about anything' and the 'same' things can be endowed with different intended meanings for different individuals and groups of people, thereby offering mass produced visions of individualism.” . 
noLabel	CIFOR is a member of the Collaborative Partnership on Forests (CPF), a voluntary arrangement among 14 international organisations and secretariats with substantial programmes on forests.	The CPF’s mission is to promote the management, conservation and sustainable development of all types of forest and strengthen long-term political commitment to this end. 
noLabel	In response to VHEMT, some journalists and academics have argued that humans can develop sustainable lifestyles or can reduce their population to sustainable levels.	Others maintain that, whatever the merits of the idea, because of the human reproductive drive humankind will never voluntarily seek extinction.
noLabel	The Supreme Court ruled that the Ohio program did not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, because it passed a five-part test developed by the Court in this case, titled the Private Choice Test.	The decision was 5-4, with moderate justices Anthony Kennedy and Sandra Day O'Connor and conservative justices William Rehnquist, Antonin Scalia, and Clarence Thomas in the majority. 
noLabel	Unlike other forms of intelligence collection disciplines, espionage usually involves accessing the place where the desired information is stored, or accessing the people who know the information and will divulge it through some kind of subterfuge.	There are exceptions to physical meetings, such as the Oslo Report, or the insistence of Robert Hanssen in never meeting the people to whom he was selling information. 
noLabel	In April 2008, three senior officials of the Canadian Human Rights Commission (CHRC) granted a telephone interview with the media to respond to criticism.	The officials were Ian Fine, senior general counsel and director-general of dispute resolution, Monette Maillet, director of legal advisory services and Harvey Goldberg, senior policy advisor on hate speech, disability and First Nations issues . 
noLabel	In so-called "post-conflict" situations, there has traditionally been an emphasis in the international community to seek to return to the pre-war status-quo .	However, opinions are gradually changing, because violent conflict destroys political, economic and social structures and new structures develop as a result, quite often irreversibly .
noLabel	Typically, these schools are allowed to remain open, perhaps with new leadership or restructuring, or perhaps with no change at all.	Charter school proponents assert that charter schools are not given the opportunities to restructure often and are simply closed down when students perform poorly on these assessments . 
noLabel	The book also included what Wilcox stated was new evidence from intelligence material which indicated the Japanese might have had an atomic program at Konan .	These specific claims were dismissed in a review of the book by Department of Energy employee Roger M. Anders which was published in the journal Military Affairs, an article written by two historians of science in the journal Isis and another article in the journal "Intelligence and National Security" .
noLabel	Hiroshima was the primary target of the first nuclear bombing mission on 6 August, with Kokura and Nagasaki as alternative targets.	The 393d Bombardment Squadron B-29 Enola Gay, piloted by Tibbets, took off from North Field airbase on Tinian, about six hours flight time from Japan.
noLabel	Intention and desire can be complex, possibly represented by a scale, with possible levels of ambivalence, in addition to clearly defined extremes .	Among unintended pregnancies, mistimed pregnancies are those that occurred sooner than desired, whereas unwanted pregnancies are those occurring when no more pregnancies were desired . 
noLabel	“We recommend that existing border control agencies should be combined into a single frontier force on the basis of secondment and direct employment, but with clear lines of communication back to the parent agencies.	Pending the creation of a single frontier force, strategic co-direction of better joint working should be provided by a ministerial group to which the official Border Agencies Directors Group should report at least four times a year” . 
noLabel	Law enforcement reporting indicates Mexican DTOs maintain drug distribution networks or supply drugs to distributors in at least 230 U.S. cities.	Mexican DTOs control most of the U.S. drug market and are gaining strength in markets they do not yet control .
noLabel	It has been shown by the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem that any voting method which is completely strategy-free must be either dictatorial or nondeterministic (that is, might not select the same outcome every time it is applied to the same set of voter preferences).	For instance, the random ballot voting method, which randomly selects the ballot of a single voter and uses this to determine the outcome, is strategy-free, but may result in different choices being selected if applied multiple times to the same set of ballots. 
noLabel	The Southern District of New York (SDNY) Action Against Online Poker Players was a legal action taken by the Department of Justice in an effort to crack down on online poker.	The action occurred around June 8, 2009, when the government ordered four banks to freeze over 34 million dollars in payments owed to about 27,000 poker players .
noLabel	Energy efficiency is expected to improve to average of of natural gas or of energy per barrel by 2015, giving an EROEI of about 6.5 .	However, since natural gas production in Alberta peaked in 2001 and has been static ever since, it is likely oil sands requirements will be met by cutting back natural gas exports to the United States . 
noLabel	Moreover, about 15 million people have been relocated due to dam construction since 1949 and often these uprooted local people, in particular in Sichuan and Yunnan, tend to be poor and uneducated farmers, who are strongly attached to their ancestral land and have found it difficult to adapt to the more urban areas they have been resettled to.	Growing media and NGO attention on the ecological and social impacts of hydropower and efforts in the central government in recent years to improve the regulatory framework of hydropower development and protect the interests of minority stakeholders, such as displaced locals, indicate that hydropower may eventually become more environmentally and socially sustainable. 
noLabel	Some historians and authors, including Noel Ignatiev and Karen Brodkin, discuss the historical trajectory from exclusion to acceptance of Irish and Jewish émigrés in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in terms of white privilege.	At the end of the 20th century two sources saw a system of advantage to white people in areas such as housing, salaries, access to employment (especially to positions of power), access to education, even life expectancy . 
noLabel	The massacres committed by the Einsatzgruppen were usually justified under the grounds of anti-partisan or anti-bandit operations, but the German historian Andreas Hillgruber wrote that this was merely an excuse for the German Army's considerable involvement in the Holocaust in Russia and the terms "war crimes" and "crimes against humanity" were indeed correct labels for what happened .	Hillgruber maintained that the slaughter of about 2.2 million defenceless men, women and children for the reasons of racist ideology cannot possibly be justified for any reason, and that those German generals who claimed that the Einsatzgruppen were a necessary anti-partisan response were lying .
noLabel	As an act of protest against the Israeli actions, an Israeli flag was burned on the floor of the Jordanian Parliament .	Jordan has stated in the course of UN meetings that "the military operations were a flagrant violation of international humanitarian law and the Fourth Geneva Convention" . 
noLabel	It should be noted that data for the number of fights and deaths from the bare-knuckle era is incomplete, and also that there were many differences in rules and medical care.	Bare-knuckle boxing matches were usually fought until one fighter could not continue, with bouts sometimes lasting hours, and a few fighters dying after they were carried to their mark to restart the fight when they would otherwise have been unable to continue.
noLabel	“Discrimination toward foreign nationals in their searches for homes continues to be one of the biggest problems”, said the head of the Ethnic Media Press Centre.	Organizers of the service said they hope to eradicate the racism that prevents foreigners, particularly Non-Westerners, from renting apartments since there are currently no laws in Japan that ban discrimination .
noLabel	And Manchester United player Rio Ferdinand is sitting out much of the football season after he earned an eight-month suspension for missing a drugs test.	As the media spotlight shines on these highly paid icons, what messages do young people take from their conduct, their morals and their fate?
noLabel	Population optimists have been criticized for failing to take into account the depletion of the petroleum required for the production of fertilizers and fuel for transportation, as well as other fossil fuels .	In his 1992 book Earth in the Balance, Al Gore wrote, ".. it ought to be possible to establish a coordinated global program to accomplish the strategic goal of completely eliminating the internal combustion engine over, say, a twenty-five-year period.." Approximately half of the oil produced in the United States is refined into gasoline for use in internal combustion engines . 
noLabel	Buchanan and other paleoconservatives argue that multiculturalism is the ideology of the modern managerial state, an ongoing regime that remains in power, regardless of what political party holds a majority.	It acts in the name of abstract goals, such as equality or positive rights, and uses its claim of moral superiority, power of taxation and wealth redistribution to keep itself in power. 
noLabel	The world's largest desalination plant is the Jebel Ali Desalination Plant (Phase 2) in the United Arab Emirates, which can produce 300 million cubic meters of water per year, or about 2500 gallons per second.	The largest desalination plant in the US is the one at Tampa Bay, Florida, which began desalinizing 25 million gallons (95000 m³) of water per day in December 2007 .
noLabel	The Queen's Representative serves as the viceroy of the Cook Islands and the Governor-General of New Zealand, represented by the State Services Commissioner, represents the Queen in Niue, carrying out all the monarch's constitutional and ceremonial duties of state on her behalf.	The Administrator of the territory of Tokelau is appointed by the Governor-General of New Zealand-in-Council, at the recommendation of the New Zealand Minister of Foreign Affairs, and the Governor-General of New Zealand serves ex-officio as Governor of the Ross Dependency; but, as the territories are not sovereign entities, the Administrator and Governor are representatives of the New Zealand government and not the sovereign personally.
noLabel	However, if any democracy is not structured so as to prohibit the government from excluding the people from the legislative process, or any branch of government from altering the separation of powers in its own favor, then a branch of the system can accumulate too much power and destroy the democracy .	Representative Democracy, Consensus Democracy, and Deliberative Democracy are all major examples of attempts at a form of government that is both practical and responsive to the needs and desires of citizens. 
noLabel	All Australian states have relatively similar holiday periods, but there is the ability for this to change around, such as for the Melbourne 2006 Commonwealth games, when the first term in Victorian schools was shortened to 6 weeks and the other subsequently extended to 12 weeks due to severe disruptions to the public and private bus networks used by school students.	Most private schools in Australia have up to four weeks of additional holidays, due to their longer teaching hours during term. 
noLabel	In this selection process, the BCS is often criticized for conference favoritism, its inequality of access for teams in non-Automatic Qualifying (non-AQ) Conferences (most likely due to perceived strength of schedule), and perceived monopolistic, "profit-centered" motives .	In terms of this last concern, Congress has explored the possibility on more than one occasion of holding hearings to determine the legality of the BCS under the terms of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act, and the United States Justice Department has also periodically announced interest in investigating the BCS for similar reasons .
noLabel	The success of the policy has been questioned, and reduction in fertility has also been attributed to the modernization of China .	The policy is controversial both within and outside of China because of the issues it raises, the manner in which the policy has been implemented and because of concerns about negative economic and social consequences.
noLabel	In the week following the release, "wikileaks" was the search term with the most significant growth worldwide in the last seven days as measured by Google Insights .	In June 2010, Manning was arrested after alleged chat logs were turned in to the authorities by former hacker Adrian Lamo, in whom he had confided.
noLabel	Carter's successor, President Ronald Reagan, extended the policy in October 1981 with what is sometimes called the "Reagan Corollary to the Carter Doctrine", which proclaimed that the United States would intervene to protect Saudi Arabia, whose security was threatened after the outbreak of the Iran–Iraq War .	Some analysts have argued that the implementation of the Carter Doctrine and the Reagan Corollary also played a role in the outbreak of the 2003 Iraq War .
noLabel	The format of the examinations within the PSLE has been revised consistently throughout its history, in order to suit the Ministry of Education's policy.	However, the standard examination procedure retains many of the same elements throughout the years despite changes being made to the requirements of each question, the score allocated to each question and the revisions in emphasis.
noLabel	Diablo II was recognized in the 2000 standard edition for being the fastest selling computer game ever sold, with more than 1 million units sold in the first two weeks of availability; though this number has been surpassed several times since .	A number of RPGs are also being exhibited in the Barbican Art Gallery's "Game On" exhibition (starting in 2002) and the Smithsonian's "The Art of Video Games" exhibit (starting in 2012); and video game developers are now finally able to apply for grants from the US National Endowment of the Arts . 
noLabel	Smart pigs (also known as intelligent or intelligence pigs) are used to detect anomalies in the pipe such as dents, metal loss caused by corrosion, cracking or other mechanical damage .	These devices are launched from pig-launcher stations and travel through the pipeline to be received at any other station down-stream, either cleaning wax deposits and material that may have accumulated inside the line or inspecting and recording the condition of the line. 
noLabel	Before the advent of government-funded public schools, the primary mode of education for those of the lower classes was the charity school, pioneered during the 19th century by Protestant organizations and adapted for use by the Roman Catholic Church and governmental bodies.	Because these schools operated on very small budgets and attempted to serve as many needy children as possible, economic factors were prominent in their design. 
noLabel	The New Testament Parable of the Tares, which speaks of the difficulty of distinguishing wheat from weeds before harvest time, has also been invoked in support of religious toleration.	In his "Letter to Bishop Roger of Chalons", Bishop Wazo of Liege (c. 985–1048 AD) relied on the parable  to argue that "the church should let dissent grow with orthodoxy until the Lord comes to separate and judge them" . 
noLabel	Already some are concerned with the current amount of human rights abuses committed by the armed forces, some 800 in the first five months of 2008, double the rate from the year before.	Most claims are filed for misconduct or illegal searches; yet some, though far fewer, are as serious as rape and torture.
noLabel	Critics argue that in many countries women are frequently infected by their unfaithful husbands while being faithfully married, and thus women who follow the recommendations of ABC promoters face an increased risk of HIV infection .	Condoms, needles, and negotiation is a proposed alternative approach as is SAVE (Safer practices, Available medication, Voluntary testing & counselling and Empowerment through education) . 
noLabel	1998) it becomes possible to find situations and ecological contexts where ecosystems become more or less stable than they should be.	Finding these contexts would allow for mechanistic studies into why these ecosystems are more stable, which may allow for applications in conservation management. 
noLabel	According to the UNHCR, every asylum-seeker than comes from the central and southern regions of Iraq should be granted refugee status .	However, many European countries are not following these guidelines and argue that the post-war situation in these areas of Iraq is not enough for qualifying Iraqis as refugees.
noLabel	All available IND resources were diverted to deal with the asylum backlog and the Criminal Casework Team that was gradually re-formed after the Casework Programme crisis, was left under-funded and under staffed.	The problem was partially addressed in 2003 when extra staff were allocated but it was insufficient to deal with the growing backlog of cases . 
noLabel	“Neuromarketing is a controversial new field of marketing which uses medical technologies such as functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)—not to heal, but to sell products.	Advertising and marketing firms have long used the insights and research methods of psychology in order to sell products, of course.
noLabel	Each summer two foreign national teams visit and play seven test matches and numerous one-day internationals, and in the British winter the team tours abroad.	The highest profile rival of the team is the Australian team, with which it competes for The Ashes, one of the most famous trophies in British sport. 
noLabel	After the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the world’s nuclear weapons stockpiles grew, and nuclear weapons have been detonated on over two thousand occasions for testing and demonstration purposes.	Countries known to have detonated nuclear weapons—and that acknowledge possessing such weapons—are (chronologically) the United States, the Soviet Union (succeeded as a nuclear power by Russia), the United Kingdom, France, the People's Republic of China, India, Pakistan, and North Korea .
noLabel	Throughout the early twentieth century, boxers struggled to achieve legitimacy, aided by the influence of promoters like Tex Rickard and the popularity of great champions from John L. Sullivan to Jack Dempsey.	Shortly after this era, boxing commissions and other sanctioning bodies were established to regulate the sport and establish universally recognized champions.
noLabel	The proposition policy is to offer financial incentives to have female children including enhanced educational subsidies and welfare packages for female children and their parents.	An example of such a policy is the Benefits for Girls pilot program which has been launched in China’s Fujian province whereby couples who have 2 female children (and no males) receive an annual lifelong pension as well as preferential treatment in housing, healthcare and employment.
noLabel	According to the World Commission on Dams report, where the reservoir is large compared to the generating capacity (less than 100 watts per square metre of surface area) and no clearing of the forests in the area was undertaken prior to impoundment of the reservoir, greenhouse gas emissions from the reservoir may be higher than those of a conventional oil-fired thermal generation plant .	Although these emissions represent carbon already in the biosphere, not fossil deposits that had been sequestered from the carbon cycle, there is a greater amount of methane due to anaerobic decay, causing greater damage than would otherwise have occurred had the forest decayed naturally. 
noLabel	Speaking to members of Parliament before their vote, Papademos stated that if the majority of them chose to vote against the austerity measures there would be several onerous consequences, including that the government would not be able to pay the salaries of its employees.	On 13 February, the Greek Parliament subsequently approved this latest round of austerity measures by a vote of 199 to 74.
noLabel	Wealthy lobbyists often encourage other lobbying clients to donate to a particular cause, in the hope that favors will be returned at a later date.	Lobbyist Gerald Cassidy encouraged other clients to give for causes dear to a particular client engaged in a current lobbying effort .
noLabel	An animal sanctuary is a facility where animals are brought to live and be protected for the rest of their lives.	[1] Unlike animal shelters, sanctuaries do not seek to place animals with individuals or groups, instead maintaining each animal until his or her natural death.
noLabel	The precise stage of schooling provided by a high school differs from country to country, and may vary within the same jurisdiction.	In all of New Zealand and Malaysia along with parts of Australia, Bangladesh and Canada, high school is synonymous with secondary school, and encompasses the entire secondary stage of education.
noLabel	The state then steps in and forgives (through a tax credit) some or all of the taxes that the donor has given to the organization.	While conventional tax credit systems are structured to treat all private school participants equally, neovoucher systems effectively delegate to individual private taxpayers (those owing money to the state) the power to decide which private schools will benefit . 
noLabel	While the deep ecologist critic would answer that the logical application of language and social mores would provide this justification, i.e.	voting patterns etc., the deep ecologist would note that these needs and interests are ultimately deducible solely from the application of logic to the observed behavior of the life form, which is the same standard used by deep ecologists to perceive the standard of interests for the natural world.
noLabel	The game engine was licensed to several other companies as well, who released their own games based on it, including Heretic, Hexen, Strife and HacX.	A Doom-based game called Chex Quest was released in 1996 by Ralston Foods as a promotion to increase cereal sales, and the United States Marine Corps released Marine Doom, designed to "teach teamwork, coordination and decision-making". 
noLabel	Pro-Israeli NGOs CAMERA and NGO Monitor found out significant contradictions between the testimonies of the family members and the neighbors that were told HRW and the reports of the incident published in numerous newspapers in winter 2009 .	In a response to the report, the Israeli military said its soldiers were obligated to avoid harming anyone waving a white flag, but that in some cases Hamas militants had used civilians with white flags for cover.
noLabel	The ritual of metzitzah is found in Mishnah Shabbat 19:2, which lists it as one of the four steps involved in the circumcision rite.	Moses Sofer (1762–1839) observed that the Talmud states that the rationale for this part of the ritual was hygienic — i.e., to protect the health of the child.
noLabel	As a result of their violation of RNC rules, these states were penalized with a loss of half their delegates, including voting right for RNC delegates.	Despite having early caucuses, Iowa, Maine, Colorado, Minnesota and Missouri were not penalized, because their contests did not allocate national delegates . 
noLabel	Comparing the maps, Shaw and McKay recognized that the pattern of delinquency rates corresponded to the "natural urban areas" of Park and Burgess’ Concentric Zone Model.	This evidenced the conclusion that delinquency rates always remained high for a certain region of the city (ecological zone 2), no matter which immigrant group lived there.
noLabel	In diplomatic situations, governors-general are sometimes accorded a status akin to a head of state, but that is by tradition and on a case by case and person by person basis, not automatic.	At state banquets, for example, toasts are made to the head of state, not to a governor-general, except insofar as a personal toast may be proposed subsequently to "Governor-General and Mrs. X" as hosts of, or guests at, the banquet.
noLabel	In January 2009, before her appointment to the mission, Christine Chinkin co-signed a letter published in the Sunday Times describing Israel's military offensive in Gaza as "an act of aggression."	The letter also stated that the firing of rockets by Hamas into Israel and suicide bombings are "contrary to international humanitarian law and are war crimes.
noLabel	Mohammed ElBaradei had previously stated that Syria's ability to construct and run a complex nuclear process was doubtful - speaking ahead of the IAEA inspection of the alleged Syrian nuclear site, which has been demolished, he said: "It is doubtful we will find anything there now, assuming there was anything in the first place.	" The New York Times reported that after the publishing of US intelligence data on April 24, "two senior intelligence officials acknowledged that the evidence had left them with no more than “low confidence” that Syria was preparing to build a nuclear weapon.
noLabel	In the years prior to the Revolutionary War, the British, in response to the colonists' unhappiness over increasingly direct control and taxation of the colonies, imposed a powder embargo on the colonies in an attempt to lessen the ability of the colonists to resist British encroachments into what the colonies regarded as local matters.	Two direct attempts to disarm the colonial militias fanned what had been a smoldering resentment of British interference into the fires of war.
noLabel	Yehuda Blum, in a speech to the United Nations Security Council following the attack, claimed that the operation was launched on a Sunday afternoon under the assumption that workers present on the site, including foreign experts employed at the reactor, would have left .	Notwithstanding this precaution, there were hundreds of French workers and other nationals at the plant at the time of the raid . 
noLabel	A new Carbon Trust study into the potential of small-scale wind energy has found that small wind turbines could provide up to 1.5 terawatt hours (TW·h) per year of electricity (0.4% of total UK electricity consumption), saving 0.6 million tonnes of carbon dioxide (Mt CO2) emission savings.	This is based on the assumption that 10% of households would install turbines at costs competitive with grid electricity, around 12 pence (US 19 cents) a kW·h . 
noLabel	In his 1992 book Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland, Christopher Browning examined the German Ordnungspolizei Reserve Battalion 101, used to massacre and round up Jews for deportation to the Nazi death camps.	The men of the battalion were middle-aged men of working class background from Hamburg, who were unfit for military duty and were given no special training for genocide.
noLabel	According to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics report from 2004, in 2003 most abortion requests were granted, with 19,500 legal abortions performed and 200 requests for abortion denied.	Reasons for termination went as follows: the woman was unmarried (42%), because of illegal circumstances (11%), health risks to the woman (about 20%), age of the woman (11%) and fetal birth defects (about 17%) .
noLabel	A large wind farm may consist of several hundred individual wind turbines, and cover an extended area of hundreds of square miles, but the land between the turbines may be used for agricultural or other purposes.	A wind farm may be located offshore to take advantage of strong winds blowing over the surface of an ocean or lake. 
noLabel	Military spending: The military budget of the United States during FY 2011 was approximately $740 billion in expenses for the Department of Defense (DoD), $141 billion for veteran expenses, and $48 billion in expenses for the Department of Homeland Security, for a total of $929 billion .	The U.S. defense budget (excluding spending for the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, Homeland Security, and Veteran's Affairs) is around 5% of GDP.
noLabel	The RCA paper states: "Rabbi Schachter even reports that Rav Yosef Dov Soloveitchik reports that his father, Rav Moshe Soloveitchik, would not permit a mohel to perform metzitza be’peh with direct oral contact, and that his grandfather, Rav Chaim Soloveitchik, instructed mohelim in Brisk not to do metzitza be’peh with direct oral contact.	However, although Rav Yosef Dov Soloveitchik also generally prohibited metzitza be’peh with direct oral contact, he did not ban it by those who insisted upon it,..".
noLabel	Public petitions after Kobe's return to Japan culminated in a 18 March 1975 resolution by the city council to prohibit nuclear-armed vessels from entering the port .	U.S. policy being to neither confirm nor deny nuclear weapons deployment, this resolution effectively removed the U.S. naval presence from Kobe Port.
noLabel	In Slovak republic / Slovakia the content of Sex education varies from school to school, mostly being led by a teacher for a subject which translated to English would be Nature science (The subject covers biology and petrology).	The quality of explanation also varies from teacher to teacher and it is not uncommon that the teacher relies on students asking questions.
noLabel	The Help America Vote Act (), or HAVA, is a United States federal law which passed in the House 357-48 and 92-2 in the Senate and was signed into law by President Bush on October 29, 2002 .	Drafted (at least in part) in reaction to the controversy surrounding the 2000 U.S. presidential election, the goals of HAVA are: . 
noLabel	He is the founder and Executive Director of the Inter Region Economic Network [IREN], an independent and non-partisan think tank that promotes policies geared towards the creation of a free Africa.	He is also the Country Director for Students In Free Enterprise [SIFE Kenya] and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of an online business magazine The African Executive that is published weekly by IREN.
noLabel	The effects of addiction on society vary considerably between different substances that can be smoked and the indirect social problems that they cause, in great part because of the differences in legislation and the enforcement of narcotics legislation around the world.	Though nicotine is a highly addictive drug, its effects on cognition are not as intense or noticeable as other drugs such as, cocaine, amphetamines or any of the opiates (including heroin and morphine). 
noLabel	The tactics of voter suppression can range from minor "dirty tricks" that make voting inconvenient, up to blatantly illegal activities that physically intimidate prospective voters to prevent them from casting ballots.	Voter suppression could be particularly effective if a significant amount of voters are intimidated individually because the voter might not consider his or her single vote important.
noLabel	Within the United States the authority to produce and develop nuclear weapons was removed from military control and put instead under the civilian control of the United States Atomic Energy Commission.	This decision reflected an understanding that nuclear weapons had unique risks and benefits that were separate from other military technology known at the time. 
noLabel	The libertarian position argues that any trade restraint is immoral a priori, since restricting the rights of sovereign consumers to purchase foreign goods is outside the scope of legitimate government.	This is in the tradition of the Anti-Corn Law radicals, like Richard Cobden, who concluded their 1838 parliamentary petition with an appeal to "negative liberty": . 
noLabel	Irish hagiography holds that, as Europe was entering the Medieval Age, the abbess St. Brigit of Kildare was founding monasteries across Ireland.	The Celtic Church played an important role in restoring Christianity to Western Europe following the Fall of Rome, thus the work of nuns like Brigid is significant in Christian history . 
noLabel	The National Firearms Agreement banned all semi-automatic rifles and all semi-automatic and pump-action shotguns, and created a tightly restrictive system of licensing and ownership controls.	Because the Australian Constitution prevents the taking of property without just compensation the Federal Government introduced the Medicare Levy Amendment Act 1996 that provided the revenue for the National Firearms Program through a one-off 0.2% increase in the Medicare levy.
noLabel	In 1984, during a protest against the policies of the Reagan administration in Dallas, Texas, Gregory Lee Johnson doused an American flag that was given to him by a fellow demonstrator with kerosene and set it alight while those around him chanted "America the red, white and blue, we spit on you."	He was later arrested and convicted on a flag desecration law in Texas, and sentenced to one year in prison and a $2,000 fine. 
noLabel	Over the course of the 20th century, the UK gradually implemented tighter regulation of the civilian ownership of firearms through the enactment of the 1968, 1988, 1994 and 1997 Firearms (Amendment) Acts leading to the current outright ban on the ownership of all automatic, and most self-loading, firearms in the UK.	The ownership of breech-loading handguns is, in particular, also very tightly controlled and effectively limited (other than in Northern Ireland) to those persons who may require such a handgun for the non routine humane killing of injured or dangerous animals. 
noLabel	In August 2009 the government of the Turks and Caicos Islands, a UK dependency, was revested in the governor, on the advice of the Government of the United Kingdom, under an Order in Council of 18 March 2009, which suspended and amended parts of the Islands' constitution, and vacated all the offices of ministers and the House of Assembly.	This was not itself an exercise of the royal prerogative, as it was made under "the West Indies Act 1962 and of all other powers enabling Her to do so".
noLabel	Amnesty International stated that Goldstone's findings were consistent with those of Amnesty’s own field investigation, and called on the UN to implement the recommendations .	Human Rights Watch called the report a significant step toward justice and redress for the victims on both sides, and called on the Security Council to implement the report's recommendations . 
noLabel	Thousands of Arabs and Indians in Zanzibar were massacred in riots, and thousands more were detained or fled the island .	On 4 August 1972, Idi Amin, President of Uganda, ethnically cleansed Uganda's Asians giving them 90 days to leave the country . 
noLabel	, total tax revenue was 47.8% of GDP, the second highest tax burden among developed countries, down from 49.1% 2006 .	Sweden's inverted tax wedge – the amount going to the service worker's wallet – is approximately 15% compared to 10% in Belgium, 30% in Ireland, and 50% in United States .
noLabel	Friedman believed that if the money supply was to be centrally controlled (as by the Federal Reserve) that the preferable way to do it would be with a mechanical system that would keep the quantity of money increasing at a steady rate.	However, instead of government involvement at all, he was open to a "real," non-government, gold standard where money is produced by the private market: "A real gold standard is thoroughly consistent with [classical] liberal principles and I, for one, am entirely in favor of measures promoting its development."
noLabel	In the historic period, the Niger–Congo speaking peoples predominantly have and have had male circumcision which occurred in young warrior initiation schools, the schools of Senegal and Gambia being not so very different from those of the Kenyan Gikuyu and South African Zulu.	Their common ancestor was a horticultural group five, perhaps seven, thousand years ago from an area of the Cross River in modern Nigeria.
noLabel	Run-of-the-River power is considered an “unfirm” source of power: a run-of-the-river project has little or no capacity for energy storage and hence can't co-ordinate the output of electricity generation to match consumer demand.	It thus generates much more power during times when seasonal river flows are high (i.e, spring freshet), and much less during drier summer months.
noLabel	Additionally, the class rank rule has the same consequence as traditional affirmative action: opening schools to students who would otherwise not be admitted had the given school used a holistic, merit-based approach .	From 1996 to 1998, Texas had entirely merit-based admission to its state universities, and minority enrollment was low; adopting the "top 10 percent" rule returned minority enrollment to pre-1996 levels . 
noLabel	A hydroelectric plant's production may also be affected by requirements to keep the water level from getting too high or low and to provide water for fish downstream.	However, solar, wind and hydroelectric plants do have high availability factors, so when they have fuel available, they are almost always able to produce electricity . 
noLabel	An act that though stated to be "a very minimal proposal" by Senator McCain to the Senate, "that while woefully inadequate should be the first step."	The Climate Stewardship and Innovation Act of 2007 was introduced by Senator Joseph Lieberman, McCain and other co-sponsors in January 2007, with McCain commenting "we continue to learn more about the science of climate change and the dangerous precedence of not addressing this environmental problem.
noLabel	After making two holes to the right and left - you would move forward two feet, select plants from your bag and repeat.	Various mechanical tobacco planters like Bemis, New Idea Setter, and New Holland Transplanter were invented in the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries to automate the process: making the hole, watering it, guiding the plant in — all in one motion. 
noLabel	In the United States, crime data is collected from three major sources: law enforcement agency crime reports, collected monthly by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and processed annually as Uniform Crime Reports (UCR); victimization surveys, collected biannually by the Bureau of Justice Statistics and processed annually in the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS); and self-report surveys.	The UCR represents the primary source of data used in the calculation of official statistics regarding serious crimes such as murder and homicide, which is supplemented by the information provided through the NCVS and self-report studies, the latter being the best indicator of actual crime rates for minor offenses such as illegal substance abuse and petty theft.
noLabel	The ban was lifted on April 11, following protests and allegations of censorship from users with Indonesian communications minister Muhammad Nuh apologising for “the inconvenience caused” .	Internet Service Providers are now taking a different approach, saying they will try to block access to individual pages carrying Fitna . 
noLabel	Examples can include when relatively wealthy people retire to other countries where the locals may expect an unrealistic boost to their economy or when a corporation relocates bringing with it unforeseen problems such as a foreign management style or pollution.	Unforeseen variance in presumed appropriateness of inequality among people (power distance), or age or gender appropriate decorum are common sources of unrealistic expectations (see work on expectancy violation theory). 
noLabel	In addition to lack of immigration law enforcement the potential for a future illegal immigration amnesty and birth right citizenship for future children are significant contributors to the decision of a person to illegally immigrate and to remain in a country as an illegal immigrant.	The United States is one of only two high average income countries (the other country is Canada which offers it in limited circumstances) that still gives birthright citizenship for children born where both parents are illegal immigrants, tourists, visitors or other types of temporary residents (diplomats excepted) .
noLabel	The Laffer Curve is a theoretical representation of the relationship between government revenue raised by taxation and all possible rates of taxation.	It is used to illustrate the concept of taxable income elasticity (that taxable income will change in response to changes in the rate of taxation).
noLabel	Studies in children and adults have found an association between the number of hours of television watched and the prevalence of obesity .	A 2008 meta analysis found that 63 of 73 studies (86%) showed an increased rate of childhood obesity with increased media exposure, and rates increasing proportionally to time spent watching television .
noLabel	Some of them have since been completely discredited — like Lombroso’s theory that you can determine a person’s propensity toward criminal behaviour by measuring certain physiological traits such as head size.	But much of the focus and research into the causes of crime has centered around the impact of social deprivation or poverty on those who commit it.
noLabel	In April 1999, at the urging of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC), Pakistan brought before the United Nations Commission on Human Rights a resolution entitled "Defamation of Islam.	" The purpose of the resolution was to have the Commission stand up against what the OIC claimed was a campaign to defame Islam .
noLabel	The two main areas where the effect of biodiversity on ecosystem function have been studied are the relationship between diversity and productivity, and the relationship between diversity and community stability.	More biologically diverse communities appear to be more productive (in terms of biomass production) than are less diverse communities, and they appear to be more stable in the face of perturbations. 
noLabel	Others argue that the observed suboptimality in one system or another is intentional, as a Trade-off to improve overall optimal design .	A common example from electrical engineering would be in amplifier design: Suppose an electrical engineer uses a negative feedback loop to trade amplifier gain for stability.
noLabel	They may use the term "structural violence" to describe the systematic ways in which a given social structure or institution kills people slowly by preventing them from meeting their basic needs, for example the deaths caused by diseases because of lack of medicine .	Free market supporters argue that it is violently enforced state laws intervening in markets - state capitalism - which cause many of the problems anti-capitalists attribute to structural violence . 
noLabel	While the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms was adopted in 1982, it was not until 1985 that the main provisions regarding equality rights (section 15) came into effect.	The delay was meant to give the federal and provincial governments an opportunity to review pre-existing statutes and strike potentially unconstitutional inequalities. 
noLabel	As a result of this backing, Greece was granted by the EU a quid pro quo of further austerity for a €100bn loan and a 50% debt reduction through PSI .	Within a week, Papandreou, backed unanimously by his cabinet, announced a referendum on the deal, sending shockwaves through the financial markets .
noLabel	The activists were said to have also lobbed stun grenades at IDF soldiers, and the IDF furnished video reflecting this .	An activist said that it would have been impossible to have firearms on board because "all the boats were carefully inspected by the government before they left the port of departure.
noLabel	According to the Shanghai Jiao Tong University's Academic Ranking of World Universities, more than 30 of the highest-ranked 45 institutions are in the United States (as measured by awards and research output) .	Public universities, private universities, liberal arts colleges, and community colleges all have a significant role in higher education in the United States. 
noLabel	As originally conceived, a constitutional monarch was quite a powerful figure, head of the executive branch even though his or her power was limited by the constitution and the elected parliament.	Some of the framers of the US Constitution may have conceived of the president as being an elected constitutional monarch, as the term was understood in their time, following Montesquieu's account of the separation of powers . 
noLabel	Vice Senior-General Maung Aye, Than Shwe's second-in-command and the commander in chief of the army, "reportedly disagreed with the violent approach taken against protesters", and was scheduled to meet with Aung San Suu Kyi, who was reportedly taken to Yemon Military Camp on the outskirts of Yangon .	Another report claimed Maung Aye had staged a coup against Than Shwe, that his troops were guarding Aung San Suu Kyi's home, and that diplomatic sources said that Aung San Suu Kyi had been moved to a police academy compound outside Yangon; although no independent confirmation has been made on the report . 
noLabel	84, argued against a "Bill of Rights," asserting that ratification of the Constitution did not mean the American people were surrendering their rights, and, therefore, that protections were unnecessary: "Here, in strictness, the people surrender nothing, and as they retain everything, they have no need of particular reservations."	Critics pointed out that earlier political documents had protected specific rights, but Hamilton argued that the Constitution was inherently different: . 
noLabel	The origins of unions' existence can be traced from the 18th century, where the rapid expansion of industrial society drew women, children, rural workers, and immigrants to the work force in numbers and in new roles.	This pool of unskilled and semi-skilled labour spontaneously organised in fits and starts throughout its beginnings, and would later be an important arena for the development of trade unions.
noLabel	In response to the greater freedom of expression brought about by the Arab Spring revolutions in countries that were previously subject to very strict censorship, in March 2011, Reporters Without Borders moved Tunisia and Egypt from its "Internet enemies" list to its list of countries "under surveillance" and in 2012 dropped Libya from the list entirely .	At the same time there are warnings that Internet censorship might increase in other countries following the events of the Arab Spring .
noLabel	In the September 2008 CBS interview, Palin criticized Barack Obama for saying he would meet with leaders of Syria and Iran without preconditions.	Reminded by the interviewer that Henry Kissinger, whom Palin had recently met, supports direct diplomacy with both countries, Palin responded: "I've never heard Henry Kissinger say, 'Yeah, I'll meet with these leaders without preconditions being met.'
noLabel	The partition of the British Raj provinces of Panjab and Bangal and the subsequent independence of Pakistan and one day later of India in 1947 resulted in the largest human movement in history.	In this population exhange approximately 7 million Hindus and Sikhs from Bangladesh and Pakistan moved to India while approximately 7 million Muslims from India moved to Pakistan.
noLabel	Copyright initially was conceived as a way for government to restrict printing; the contemporary intent of copyright is to promote the creation of new works by giving authors control of and profit from them.	Copyrights are said to be territorial, which means that they do not extend beyond the territory of a specific state unless that state is a party to an international agreement.
noLabel	The existence of artificial methods of birth control predates Christianity; the Catholic Church as well as all Christian denominations condemned artificial methods of birth control throughout their respective histories.	This began to change in the 20th century when the Church of England became the first to accept the practice in 1930 .
noLabel	In 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington DC in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament .	There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s .
noLabel	Monegan said the subject of Wooten came up when he invited Palin to a birthday party for his cousin, state senator Lyman Hoffman, in February 2007 during the legislative session in Juneau.	"As we were walking down the stairs in the capitol building she wanted to talk to me about her former brother-in-law," Monegan said.
noLabel	The Harris Interactive College Football Poll was created expressly to replace the AP Poll after the Associated Press refused the use of its poll as a component of the BCS formula.	Before the 2006–07 season, the maximum point value of the Harris Poll was increased to 2,850 and the USA Today/Coaches' Poll was increased to 1,575. 
noLabel	One example is the idea of providing "prize money" (from a "prize fund" sponsored by the government) as a substitute for the lost profits associated with abstaining from the monopoly given by a patent .	Another approach is to remove the issue of financing development from the private sphere all together, and to cover the costs with direct government funding .
noLabel	An article in Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists describes how a North Korean underground nuclear test on May 25, 2009 was detected and the source located by GPS satellites.	The authors suggest that the effectiveness of GPS satellites for detecting nuclear explosions enhances the ability to verify compliance to the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, giving the United States more reason to ratify it .
noLabel	The Sydney 2000 Doping Control Program had the responsibility of ensuring that the games met the International Paralympic Medical and Anti-Doping Code and, for the first time in the sport, out-of-competition (OOC) testing was introduced.	This meant that the testing window was much wider, with any competitor being called for a test at any point throughout the Games. 
noLabel	The attack was strongly criticized around the world and Israel was rebuked by the United Nations Security Council and General Assembly in two separate resolutions .	The destruction of Osirak has been cited as an example of a preventive strike in contemporary scholarship on international law . 
noLabel	India has a declared nuclear no-first-use policy and is in the process of developing a nuclear doctrine based on "credible minimum deterrence."	In August 1999, the Indian government released a draft of the doctrine which asserts that nuclear weapons are solely for deterrence and that India will pursue a policy of "retaliation only".
noLabel	In the 2000s a number of legislative proposals for reductions of the voting age to 16 were made in various U.S. states, including California, Florida and Alaska, but ultimately none were successful.	Proposals were made in 2005 for a national reduction in Canada and a state reduction in New South Wales, Australia, but again there was no success.
noLabel	A welfare state is a "concept of government in which the state plays a key role in the protection and promotion of the economic and social well-being of its citizens.	It is based on the principles of equality of opportunity, equitable distribution of wealth, and public responsibility for those unable to avail themselves of the minimal provisions for a good life.
noLabel	This study found that, compared with nonabused mothers, abused adolescent mothers initiated sex earlier, had sex with much older partners, and engaged in riskier, more frequent, and promiscuous sex.	Studies by the Population Reference Bureau and the National Center for Health Statistics found that about two-thirds of children born to teenage girls in the United States are fathered by adult men age 20 or older .
noLabel	If the U.S. vacated the land, it is claimed that the island would be able to generate more money from tourism by the increased land available for development.	In the 1990s, a Special Actions Committee was set up to prepare measures to ease tensions, most notably the return of approximately 50&nbsp;km² to the Japanese state. 
noLabel	Critics also question the rationale that exclusive patent rights and the resulting high prices are required for pharmaceutical companies to recoup the large investments needed for research and development .	One study concluded that marketing expenditures for new drugs often doubled the amount that was allocated for research and development .
noLabel	In this strand of argument, there is a form of Cost-benefit analysis where the success of institutions charged with the task of control is measured by reference to the recorded incidence of crime over time.	One Benthamite concept is accepted, namely that man is a calculating animal who will weigh the rewards likely to be earned from crime against the chances of being caught.
noLabel	Transparency in the reasons for donors' decisions was also seen as very important, the need to be 'frank' about why less funding was disbursed than committed, why feedback from the recipient government was not taken on board, and why a given percentage of funds was earmarked for certain activities such as technical assistance (TA).	The resulting conclusion from these interviews and other studies is that repeatedly, the three most important issues for donor recipients are:
noLabel	This can exacerbate the global inequality in standards of living that provided the motivation for the individual to migrate in the first place.	One example of competition for skilled labour is active recruitment of health workers from the Third World by First World countries.
noLabel	The One Percent Population Survey in 1987 found that in rural areas 48 percent of males aged 45 and above were illiterate while 6 percent of males 15-19 years old were illiterate.	Although the percentage of illiterate women decreased significantly 88 percent to 15 percent, it is still significantly higher than the percentage of illiterate men for the same age groupings . 
noLabel	On 8 March 2007, the Vicariate of Rome announced that the diocesan phase of John Paul's cause for beatification was at an end.	Following a ceremony on 2 April 2007 – the second anniversary of the Pontiff's death – the cause proceeded to the scrutiny of the committee of lay, clerical, and episcopal members of the Vatican's Congregation for the Causes of Saints, to conduct a separate investigation .
noLabel	The Nagoya Protocol applies to genetic resources that are covered by the CBD, and to the benefits arising from their utilization.	The Nagoya Protocol also covers traditional knowledge (TK) associated with genetic resources that are covered by the CBD and the benefits arising from its utilization .
noLabel	|- 2009 Resident Evil 5 PS3, Xbox 360, Microsoft Windows Capcom For a pre-release trailer that contains scenes of racism, according to Newsweek journalist N'Gai Croal in an April 2008 interview.	He also stated that organizations and retailers would object to the game and that it would cause controversy on release .
noLabel	This form of transfer from high-income country taxpayers to low-income consumers is in any case rather inefficient, and the lower prices may harm production for local consumption even in NFIDCs.	Agricultural reform as a whole, including the removal of export subsidies, would only result in quite small price rises for developing-country consumers. 
noLabel	When Nazi Germany occupied Norway, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium, and France in 1940, and Yugoslavia and Greece in 1941, anti-Semitic measures were also introduced into these countries, although the pace and severity varied greatly from country to country according to local political circumstances.	Jews were removed from economic and cultural life and were subject to various restrictive laws, but physical deportation did not occur in most places before 1942.
noLabel	Of course, political leaders may openly practice their religion (for instance, president Nicolas Sarkozy is a Catholic), but they are expected to refrain from mixing their private religious life with their public functions.	Christine Boutin, who openly argued on religious grounds against a legal domestic partnership available regardless of the sex of the partners, was quickly marginalized. 
noLabel	The 4th High Level Forum (HLF) on Aid Effectiveness held in Busan, Korea, from November 29 to December 1, 2011, arrives at a crossroads in the context of international development cooperation .	HLF-4 is expected to make recommendations on a future aid quality framework, at least for the period up to the MDG date of 2015 .
noLabel	Another well-known example of early Internet activism took place in 1998, when the Mexican rebel group EZLN used decentralized communications, such as cell phones, to network with developed world activists and help create the anti-globalization group Peoples Global Action (PGA) to protest the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in Geneva .	The PGA continued to call for "global days of action" and rally support of other anti-globalization groups in this way . 
noLabel	To receive Royal Patronage, an organisation must prove to be long lasting, and to be of the highest standard in their field.	These organisations such as the Royal New Zealand Returned and Services’ Association, have received patronage from various monarchs and their families.
noLabel	After making contact with the target, the lead hand is retracted quickly to resume a guard position in front of the face.	The jab is the most important punch in a boxer's arsenal because it provides a fair amount of its own cover and it leaves the least amount of space for a counterpunch from the opponent.
noLabel	Co-evolutionary relationships can be diffuse, as among all plants and insects, specific as between two cells in an organism or just two species, symbiotic or competitive (both being reciprocal), symmetrical or asymmetrical, and so forth (Kramer, 2000a, 2000c, 2009, 2012).	Co-evolution was already recognized by Darwin in On the Origin of Species (1859) as was the obvious trait of altruism (co-operation) in The Descent of Man (Darwin, 1871).
noLabel	In addition, it reported by The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention that in the juvenile arrests during 2006, African American male youth were disproportionately arrested (34%) for forcible rape .	Although while African American male youth are being disproportionately arrested, the most common ethnic group comprising juvenile sex offenders is Caucasian males .
noLabel	In the Maryland gubernatorial election in 2010, the campaign of Republican candidate Bob Ehrlich hired a consultant who advised that "the first and most desired outcome is voter suppression", in the form of having "African-American voters stay home.	" To that end, the Republicans placed thousands of Election Day robocalls to Democratic voters, telling them that the Democratic candidate, Martin O'Malley, had won, although in fact the polls were still open for some two more hours .
noLabel	Section 22: existing rights to use languages besides English and French are not affected by the fact that only English and French have language rights in the Charter.	(Hence, if there are any rights to use Aboriginal languages anywhere they would continue to exist, though they would have no direct protection under the Charter.)
noLabel	Instead, the block of the natural flow of the Nile River meant that the Nile's natural supply of nitrate fertilizer and organic material was blocked.	Now, about one-third of the dam's electric output goes directly into fertilizer production for what previously was the most fertile area on the planet.
noLabel	In fact, outside of skin color, race is poorly correlated with biological or cultural phenomena, which sharply diminishes its validity in biomedical or social research.	Yet, unlike race or national origin, ethnicity is a sociological construct highly correlated with behavioral and cultural phenomena, particularly language, dress, adornment, food preference, religion, social interaction, marriage and family customs. 
noLabel	Convention oversight is the task of the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, which is made up of 23 experts on women's issues from different UN member states.	The Committee meets twice a year to review reports on compliance with the Convention's provisions that the signatory nations are required to submit every four years. 
noLabel	Critics claim that, in political contexts, labeling certain opinions and statements "hate speech" can be used to silence unfavorable or critical opinions and play down debate.	Certain politicians, including Member of Parliament Jussi Halla-aho, consider the term "hate speech" problematic because of the lack of an easy definition .
noLabel	At the peak of its power Sparta subdued many of the key Greek states and even managed to overpower the elite Athenian navy.	By the end of the 5th century BC it stood out as a state which had defeated the Athenian Empire and had invaded the Persian provinces in Anatolia, a period which marks the Spartan Hegemony. 
noLabel	Renewable energy is energy which comes from natural resources such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, and geothermal heat, which are renewable (naturally replenished).	About 16% of global final energy consumption comes from renewables, with 10% coming from traditional biomass, which is mainly used for heating, and 3.4% from hydroelectricity.
noLabel	The Constitution of Sweden can be altered by the riksdag, which requires a simple but absolute majority with two separate votes, separated by general elections in between.	Sweden has three other constitutional laws: the Act of Royal Succession, the Freedom of Press Act and the Fundamental Law on Freedom of Expression. 
noLabel	Western Europe was the source of much 19th century progress for conservation biology, particularly the British Empire with the Sea Birds Preservation Act 1869.	However, the United States made contributions to this field starting with thinking of Thoreau and taking form with the Forest Act of 1891, John Muir's founding of the Sierra Club in 1892, the founding of the New York Zoological Society in 1895 and establishment of a series of national forests and preserves by Theodore Roosevelt from 1901 to 1909 . 
noLabel	The United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit affirmed his conviction, but the Supreme Court reversed, stating, "We agree with petitioner that his only offense here was 'a kind of very crude offensive method of stating a political opposition to the President.'	Taken in context, and regarding the expressly conditional nature of the statement and the reaction of the listeners, we do not see how it could be interpreted otherwise."
noLabel	Organizations, ranging from multi-national for profit corporations to nonprofit charities, keep secrets for competitive advantage, to meet legal requirements, or, in some cases, to conceal nefarious behavior.	New products under development, unique manufacturing techniques, or simply lists of customers are types of information protected by trade secret laws.
noLabel	Since anarcho-capitalists oppose the existence of even a minimal state, this ideological framework requires that any functions served by intellectual property law promulgation and enforcement be provided through private sector institutions.	Murray Rothbard argues for allowing contractually arising infinite copyright terms and against the need for any government role in protecting intellectual property .
noLabel	The Grand Theft Auto series is set in a fictional version of the world, in a number of different time periods.	The original Grand Theft Auto introduced three main locations: Liberty City, based upon New York City, Vice City, based upon Miami, and San Andreas, based upon the western cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas. 
noLabel	When asked about this during a replay of the fight on ABC's popular "Wide World of Sports" by host Howard Cosell, Ali said he was not unduly cruel to Terrell- boxers are paid to punch their opponents into submission or defeat.	He pointed out that if he had not hit and hurt Terrell, Terrell would have hit and hurt him, which is standard practice.
noLabel	"About 50,000" seems to have been an accepted norm and the Control of Immigration Statistics documents published by the Home Office continued in to the early 1980s to divide those Commonwealth citizens settling in the UK between "old and "new" Commonwealth to give a further reassurance that the correct emphasis between national groups was being maintained.	The emphasis on settlement statistics was the most important statistical indicator until the explosion in asylum numbers in the early 1990s. 
noLabel	Most private universities charge tuition fees directly to students, and these institutions are generally held in lower regard than public universities.	A small number of private universities do not charge fees, such as John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, founded in 1918 and property of the Roman Catholic Episcopacy of Poland; the Polish Government pays all costs. 
noLabel	This is because the intensity of the blast effects drops off with the third power of distance from the explosion, while the intensity of radiation effects drops off with the second power of distance.	However, in urban areas, the extinguishing of fires ignited by thermal radiation matters little, as fires will be started anyway by electrical shorts, gas pilot lights, overturned stoves, and other ignition sources.
noLabel	Jose Canseco, a former player who said in his recent book, Juiced, that he and others, including Mr. McGwire and Mr. Sosa, used steroids, and Curt Schilling, a pitcher who has been outspoken in criticizing steroid use, testified but contradicted previous public statements.	Mr. Canseco told the committee that steroids are dangerous and should be banned, the opposite of what he wrote in his book.
noLabel	The expectation raised by the 1996 Act was that people employing foreign nationals would be prompted to ask more questions about their status and would be deterred from employing cheap, illegal foreign labour.	Section 8 of the Asylum Act of 1996 made it an offence to employ an illegal worker with a potential fine of £5000.
noLabel	This type of advertising first came to prominence in the UK by Street Advertising Services to create outdoor advertising on street furniture and pavements.	Working with products such as Reverse Graffiti, air dancer's and 3D pavement advertising, the media became an affordable and effective tool for getting brand messages out into public spaces. 
noLabel	Some examples of the anabolic effects of these hormones are increased protein synthesis from amino acids, increased appetite, increased bone remodeling and growth, and stimulation of bone marrow, which increases the production of red blood cells.	Through a number of mechanisms anabolic steroids stimulate the formation of muscle cells and hence cause an increase in the size of skeletal muscles, leading to increased strength . 
noLabel	Computer systems on Phobos malfunction, Deimos disappears entirely, and "something fragging evil" starts pouring out of the gateway, killing or possessing all UAC personnel.	Responding to a frantic distress call from the overrun scientists, the Martian marine unit is quickly sent to Phobos to investigate, where the player character is left to guard the hangar with only a pistol while the rest of the group proceeds inside.
noLabel	Federal District Judge William Matthew Byrne, Jr. declared a mistrial and dismissed all charges against Ellsberg [and Russo] on May 11, 1973, after several irregularities appeared in the government's case, including its claim that it had lost records of illegal wiretapping against Ellsberg conducted by the White House Plumbers in the contemporaneous Watergate scandal .	Byrne ruled: "The totality of the circumstances of this case which I have only briefly sketched offend a sense of justice.
noLabel	The launch of Mortal Kombat for home consoles by Acclaim Entertainment was one of the largest video game launches of the time.	A flood of TV commercials heralded the simultaneous release of all four home versions of the game on September 13, 1993, a date dubbed "Mortal Monday. "
noLabel	In April 2005, before his election as pope, he was identified as one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time.	While Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, Ratzinger repeatedly stated he would like to retire to his house in the Bavarian village of Pentling near Regensburg and dedicate himself to writing books. 
noLabel	The economics of solar PV electricity are highly dependent on silicon pricing and even companies whose technologies are based on other materials (e.g., First Solar) are impacted by the balance of supply and demand in the silicon market.	In addition, because some companies sell completed solar cells on the open market (e.g., Q-Cells), this creates a low barrier to entry for companies that want to manufacture solar modules, which in turn can create an irrational pricing environment. 
noLabel	Bryan Burwell Indianapolis Star, October 22 "Behind the closed doors of a federal grand jury in San Francisco this week, some of the most significant names in sports could end up testifying... that they are all just a bunch of juiced-up frauds... "Home-run king Barry Bonds, New York Yankees slugger Jason Giambi and 100-metre dash champions Marion Jones and Tim Montgomery are among at least 40 pro-athletes who have been subpoenaed to appear...	The [FBI] have targeted Victor Conte and Bay Area Laboratory Cooperative, a nutritional supplement company that law officials suspect provided world-class athletes with [THG]...
noLabel	For delivered items in the US, the amount of shipping and handling fees is typically not disclosed (although the fact that there will be such charges is disclosed).	The deceptive part is that they will often claim an item is "free", when, in fact, the S&H charges enable them to make a tidy profit.
noLabel	A revealing story contained in the Gospels as to Jesus' own attitude to women is found in the story of Jesus at the house of Martha and Mary.	In this story the woman Mary sits at Jesus' feet as he preaches, while her sister toils in the kitchen preparing a meal.
noLabel	As in other areas of research, the effect of funding on research literature has been discussed with respect to smoke-free laws.	Most commonly, studies which found few or no positive and/or negative effects of smoke-free laws and which were funded by tobacco companies have been delegitimised because they were seen as biased in favor of their funders . 
noLabel	In Italy, almost all the universities are public, but they enjoy de jure institutional autonomy (limited by the state in practice, like in Greece).	The majority of the funds came from the state and, therefore, students pay quite low tuition fees, decided by each university and related mainly to the student's family wealth, to the course and to the student's performances in the exams.
noLabel	On 11 December 1983 John Paul II participated in an ecumenical service in the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Rome, the first papal visit ever to a Lutheran church.	The visit took place 500 years after the birth of Martin Luther, the German Augustinian monk who initiated the Lutheran reformation. 
noLabel	By age 16, about half of each group students in the abstinence-only program as well as students in the control group were still abstinent.	Abstinence program participants who became sexually active during the 7-year study period reported having similar numbers of sexual partners as their peers of the same age; moreover, they had sex for the first time at about the same age as other students.
noLabel	In his book Born to Rebel, Frank Sulloway provides evidence that birth order influences the development of Big Five personality traits.	Sulloway suggests that firstborns and only children are more conscientious, more socially dominant, less agreeable, and less open to new ideas compared to laterborns .
noLabel	In UFMG a public high school student is granted a 10% bonus over his test grade, if he previously agrees to receive this advantage.	Public school students that declare theirselfs as blacks or "pardos" (mixed race) have a 15% bonus, also if they previously agree to receive race based bennefits.
noLabel	In 1988, he ran for the U.S. House of Representatives against seven-term incumbent Democrat Tom Luken, who defeated Chabot 56%-44% .	After that, he was appointed a Commissioner of Hamilton County, Ohio in 1990, and was elected later that year and again in 1992, staying until 1994.
noLabel	At the same time, however, they emphasized the principles of sovereignty and noninterference, calling for greater emphasis on economic, social, and cultural rights, particularly the right to economic development, over civil and political rights.	The Bangkok Declaration is considered to be a landmark expression of the Asian Values perspective, which offers an extended critique of human rights universalism .
noLabel	Attacks have been carried out by all Palestinian armed groups, and, prior to the 2008–2009 Gaza War, were consistently supported by most Palestinians, although the stated goals have been mixed.	The attacks, widely condemned for targeting civilians, have been described as terrorism by United Nations, European Union and Israeli officials, and are defined as war crimes by human rights groups Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. 
noLabel	Whilst the intensity of violence is dependent on the types of crime the organisation is involved in (as well as their organisational structure or cultural tradition) aggressive acts range on a spectrum from low-grade physical assaults to murder.	Bodily harm and grievous bodily harm, within the context of organised crime, must be understood as indicators of intense social and cultural conflict, motivations contrary to the security of the public, and other psychosocial factors .
noLabel	Darnton argues that the result of this "fusion of gens de lettres and grands" was the creation of an oppositional literary sphere, Grub Street, the domain of a "multitude of versifiers and would-be authors" .	These men, lured by the glory of the Republic of Letters, came to Paris to become authors, only to discover that their dreams of literary success were little more than chimeras.
noLabel	Floyd Mayweather, Jr. employed the use of a check hook against Ricky Hatton, which sent Hatton flying head first into the corner post and being knocked down.	Hatton managed to get himself to his feet after the knockdown but was clearly dazed and it was only a matter of moments before Mayweather landed a flurry of punches which sent Hatton crashing to the canvas, giving Mayweather a TKO victory in the 10th round and handing Hatton his first ever defeat.
noLabel	However, by the time a young man has reached his early twenties, his girlfriend or his wife will become his primary emotional caregiver .	If he cannot establish an emotional relationship with a woman, who does view sex as connected to intimacy, then he is more likely to become depressed, commit suicide or die from illness . 
noLabel	On the other hand, if those factors are not present in a person, it is more likely that he or she might become criminal.	Hirschi expanded on this theory, with the idea that a person with low self control is more likely to become criminal . 
noLabel	While job creation has increased in the past three months, most Canadians still complain about people getting laid off from work.	However, a growing amount of these layoffs are considered for seasonal purposes and has little or no relation to the recession.
noLabel	They also approved to construct a new support package, of which the exact content was to be debated and agreed on at a later summit, although it was already certain to include a demand for large privatization efforts .	In the early hours of 27 October 2011, eurozone leaders and the IMF also came to an agreement with banks to accept a 50% write-off of (some part of) Greek debt, the equivalent of , to reduce the country's debt level from €340bn to €240bn or 120% of GDP by 2020 . 
noLabel	But he had a way about him, with that great humor, an ability to influence people.” Later, The New York Times described him thusly: "After three decades in public life, the portly, gravel-voiced Mr. Rangel, who is very much the Old World-style gentleman yet sprinkles his sentences with mild profanity, still takes politics personally.	" In contrast, Rangel and his office have long been disorganized, with criticism even from supporters for taking on more things than he can keep track of .
noLabel	The rising trend in homicide rates during the 1980s and early 1990s was most pronounced among youths and Hispanic and African American males in the United States, with the injury and death rates tripling for black males aged 13 through 17 and doubling for black males aged 18 through 24 .	The rise in crack cocaine use in cities across the United States is often cited as a factor for increased gun violence among youths during this time period . 
noLabel	Dictionaries ordinarily translate laïcité as secularity or secularism (the latter being the political system), although it is sometimes rendered in English as laicity or laicism.	While the term was coined in 1871 in the dispute over the removal of religious teachers and instruction from elementary schools, the term laïcité dates to 1842 . 
noLabel	In the early 1960s, the seemingly invincible Sonny Liston captured the public imagination with his one-sided destruction of two-time heavyweight champion Floyd Patterson.	One of the last mob-connected fighters, Liston had his mystique shattered in two controversial losses to the brash upstart Cassius Clay, who changed his name to Muhammad Ali after becoming champion.
noLabel	The UNAIDS/WHO/SACEMA Expert Group on Modelling the Impact and Cost of Male Circumcision for HIV Prevention found "large benefits" of circumcision in settings with high HIV prevalence and low circumcision prevalence.	The Group estimated "one HIV infection being averted for every five to 15 male circumcisions performed, and costs to avert one HIV infection ranging from US$150 to US$900 using a 10-y time horizon" .
noLabel	Furthermore, the institution of marriage brings up the issue of premarital sex wherein people who may choose to at some point in their lives marry, engage in sexual activity with partners who they may or may not marry.	Various cultures have different attitudes about the ethics of such behavior, some condemning it while others view it to be normal and acceptable.
noLabel	Another source of error is the use of samples that are not representative of the population as a consequence of the methodology used, as was the experience of the Literary Digest in 1936.	For example, telephone sampling has a built-in error because in many times and places, those with telephones have generally been richer than those without. 
noLabel	Another focus of reform efforts to address the achievement gap has been on teacher development, as research shows teachers to be the most important in-school factor affecting student achievement.	This reform effort has been both top-down, in the form of higher state standards for teacher education and preparation, as well as bottom-up, through programs like Teach for America and AmeriCorps that aim to address educational inequity by recruiting and training teachers specifically to work in high-needs schools .
noLabel	Wind-energy advocates contend that less than 1% of the land would be used for foundations and access roads, the other 99% could still be used for farming .	Critics point out that the clearing of trees around tower bases may be necessary for installation sites on mountain ridges, such as in the northeastern U.S . 
noLabel	The United States has placed broad sanctions on Burma because of the military crackdown in 1988 and the military regime's refusal to honour the election results of the 1990 People's Assembly election.	Similarly, the European Union has placed embargoes on Burma, including an arms embargo, cessation of trade preferences, and suspension of all aid with the exception of humanitarian aid . 
noLabel	Since Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, some of its members have attempted to impose Islamic dress or the Hijab head covering on women .	Also, the government’s "Islamic Endowment Ministry" has deployed Virtue Committee members to warn citizens of the dangers of immodest dress, card playing and dating .
noLabel	Of these, 31.4 million (6.3%) were born outside the EU and 16.0 million (3.2%) were born in another EU member state.	The largest absolute numbers of people born outside the EU were in Germany (6.4 million), France (5.1 million), the United Kingdom (4.7 million), Spain (4.1 million), Italy (3.2 million), and the Netherlands (1.4 million) . 
noLabel	When senior management has its own remuneration as its primary motivation for decision making (hitting short-term quarterly earnings targets or creating high medium term earnings, without due regard for the medium term effects on, or risks for the business so that large bonuses can be justified in the current periods).	The shielding occurs because any eventual hit to earnings can most likely be explained away, and in the worst case, if an executive is terminated, usually the executive keeps the high salary and bonuses from years past. 
noLabel	In other words, those from wealthier backgrounds have considerably more access to legitimate means than do those who are economically disadvantaged.	As a consequence, anomie, or strain, is generated and produces certain ‘modes of adaptation’, or (simply put) coping strategies, that the disadvantaged use to deal with the pressures that are brought to bear on them. 
noLabel	"Just this week, the Justice Department blocked South Carolina's new law requiring voters to show photo IDs at the polls, saying data submitted by South Carolina showed that minority voters were about 20% more likely to lack acceptable photo ID required at polling places.	By some estimates, the overall population who may be disenfranchised by this wave of legislation is upward of 5 million voters, most of whom would be expected to vote with the Democratic party.
noLabel	There is an area of Calais known as "the Jungle", which houses many of the ones who are waiting to get into Great Britain.	There was a police raid here in September 2009, which was seen as a political move by authorities to show their efforts in public to control illegal immigration . 
noLabel	But "most white families have acquired their net worth from the appreciation of property that they secured under conditions of special privilege in a discriminatory housing market.	" This net worth accumulation assists in placing whites in more favorable conditions to receive low interest loans, mortgages and financial assistance in the housing market. 
noLabel	The United States was the first country to develop nuclear weapons, and is the only country to have used them in warfare, with the separate bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki in World War II.	Before and during the Cold War it conducted over a thousand nuclear tests and developed many long-range weapon delivery systems . 
noLabel	It is clear that a 0% tax rate raises no revenue, but the Laffer curve hypothesis is that a 100% tax rate will also generate no revenue because at such a rate there is no longer any incentive for a rational taxpayer to earn any income, thus the revenue raised will be 100% of nothing.	If both a 0% rate and 100% rate of taxation generate no revenue, it follows from the extreme value theorem that there must exist at least one rate in between where tax revenue would be a maximum.
noLabel	Labelled drug-related public expenditure showed a positive association with the GDP across the countries considered: r = 0.81 in the case of Health, and r = 0.91 for POS.	The percentage change in Health and POS expenditures due to a one percent increase in GDP (the income elasticity of demand) was estimated to be 1.78% and 1.23% respectively. 
noLabel	He returned to the University of Oxford in 1970 taking a position as a lecturer, and in 1990, as a reader in zoology.	In 1995 he was appointed Simonyi Professor for the Public Understanding of Science at Oxford, a position that had been endowed by Charles Simonyi with the express intention that the holder "be expected to make important contributions to the public understanding of some scientific field", and that its first holder should be Richard Dawkins . 
noLabel	Between the Mutual Film and the Joseph Burstyn decisions local, state, and city censorship boards had the power to edit or ban films.	City and state censorship ordinances are nearly as old as the movies themselves, and such ordinances banning the public exhibition of "immoral" films proliferated. 
noLabel	In addition to Confucius, another ancient Chinese philosopher of the same period (that of the Warring States) advocated a meritocratic system of government and society.	This was Han Feizi who was famous as the foremost proponent of the School of Law, otherwise known as the philosophy of Legalism.
noLabel	Payne expresses how important it is when working with the poor to understand their unique cultural differences so that one does not get frustrated but instead tries to work with them on their ideologies and help them to understand how they can help themselves and their children escape the cycle.	One aspect of generational poverty is a learned helplessness that is passed from parents to children and on down the line.
noLabel	Faircloth is author of the book Attack of the Theocrats, How the Religious Right Harms Us All and What We Can Do About It.	The Richard Dawkins Foundation (United States branch) later hired Faircloth, who has ten years experience as a state legislator, as Director of Strategy and Policy .
noLabel	Business Week in March 2009 stated that global political instability is rising fast due to the global financial crisis and is creating new challenges that need managing .	The Associated Press reported in March 2009 that: United States "Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair has said the economic weakness could lead to political instability in many developing nations.
noLabel	Some believe that the development in the 20th century of bilateral extradition treaties has endangered the right of asylum, although international law considers that a sovereign state has no obligation to surrender an alleged criminal to a foreign state, as one principle of sovereignty is that every state has legal authority over the people within its borders.	Indeed, a state granting the right of sanctuary to an asylee will summarily and categorically reject a request of the country they fled from to extradite them, regardless of any extradition treaty.
noLabel	Saying the right things to the right non-player characters will elicit useful information for the player, and may even result in other rewards such as experience.	Multiplayer online role-playing games can offer an exception to this contrast by allowing human interaction among multiple players and in some cases enabling a player to perform the role of a gamemaster .
noLabel	This program set forth eight goals for American students, including increasing the high school graduation rate to at least 90% and increasing the standing of American students to first in the world in achievement in math and science.	Goals 2000 also placed an emphasis on the importance of technology, promising that all teachers would have modern computers in their classroom and that effective software would be an integral part of the curriculum in every school.
noLabel	In 1987, Tufts University students Davin Wedel and Adam Glickman started Global Protection Corp. in response to C. Everett Koop's statement that "a condoms can save your life."	Since that time, Global Protection Corp. has become known for its innovative approach to condom marketing and its support of more than 3500 non-profit organizations worldwide.
noLabel	Because wind turbines need to be built in remote areas or at sea, there are concerns, held by conservationists, about the impact that the turbines have on local wildlife and their habitat.	Energy campaigners on the other hand tend to both reject the idea that the alleged impact is that significant and also suggest that the potential impact of climate change is a considerably greater threat to habitats.
noLabel	It should be noted that the Emancipation Proclamation did not apply to areas loyal to, or controlled by, the Union, thus the document only freed slaves where the Union still had not regained the legitimacy to do so.	Slavery was not actually abolished in the United States until the passage of the 13th Amendment which was declared ratified on December 6, 1865 . 
noLabel	" Bill Gross wrote in September 2011: "Globalization has hollowed developed economy labor markets..Globalization and technological innovation have been extremely negative influences on domestic wages and employment.	" Economist Joseph Stiglitz said in February 2012: "The economic theory is very clear..What happens when you bring together countries which are very different like the United States and China..is that the wages in the high-wage country get depressed down.
noLabel	In addition, there are international treaty procedures, such as the procedures under the European Patent Convention (EPC) [administered by the European Patent Organisation (EPOrg)], and the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) (administered by WIPO and covering more than 140 countries), that centralize some portion of the filing and examination procedure.	Similar arrangements exist among the member states of ARIPO and OAPI, the analogous treaties among African countries, and the nine CIS member states that have formed the Eurasian Patent Organization.
noLabel	While it was initially successful, sales and popularity would soon begin to decline with contributing factors being Sega's damaged reputation from previous commercial failures, software pirating, and the overwhelming anticipation for the upcoming Playstation 2.	Production for the console would discontinue in most markets by 2002 and would be Sega's final console before becoming a third party game provider only. 
noLabel	If personal savings, pensions, or state welfare fail, most senior citizens would be left entirely dependent upon their very small family or neighbours for assistance.	If, for any reason, the single child is unable to care for their older adult relatives, the oldest generations would face a lack of resources and necessities.
noLabel	The persecution and exodus of Germany's 525,000 Jews began almost as soon as the Nazis came to power on January 30, 1933.	In Mein Kampf, Hitler had been open about his hatred of Jews, and gave ample warning of his intention to drive them from Germany's political, intellectual, and cultural life.
noLabel	Further, others point out that free trade agreements often have protectionist provisions such as intellectual property, copyright, and patent restrictions that benefit large corporations.	These provisions restrict trade in music, movies, pharmaceuticals, software, and other manufactured items to high cost producers with quotas from low cost producers set to zero .
noLabel	Paul was the only member of the entire Congress to vote against the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act in 2008, which prohibits health insurers and employers from discriminating against an individual on the basis of carrying a gene(s) that is associated with an increased risk for developing a disease .	His alternative proposal, offered in 2006, would have prohibited genetic-information-based discrimination by federal, state, and local governments or government contractors, but would also have allowed such discrimination by health insurers and other employers .
noLabel	Mathematical logician William Hatcher (a member of the Baha'i Faith) made use of relational logic to claim that very simple models of moral value cannot be consistent with the premise of evil as an absolute, whereas goodness as an absolute is entirely consistent with the other postulates concerning moral value .	In Hatcher's view, one can only validly say that if an act A is "less good" than an act B, one cannot logically commit to saying that A is absolutely evil, unless one is prepared to abandon other more reasonable principles.
noLabel	" This theme had been expounded in Lynn Townsend White, Jr.'s 1967 article "The Historical Roots of Our Ecological Crisis", in which however he also offered as an alternative Christian view of man's relation to nature that of Saint Francis of Assisi, who he says spoke for the equality of all creatures, in place of the idea of man's domination over creation.	Naess' criticism is a criticism of the modern Protestant view of creation as property to be put into maximum productive use: a view used frequently in the past to exploit and dispossess native populations. 
noLabel	The 2nd reading of the 1911 Aliens Bill produced a heated debate on the necessity to increase the scope of immigration control.	Winston Churchill disliked the idea, both on principle and for practical reasons, and admitted that he had not much liked the 1905 Act and had voted against it, . 
noLabel	Eventually, game designers realized the potential of mods and custom content in general to enhance the value of their games, and so began to encourage its creation.	Some examples of this include Unreal Tournament, which allowed players to import 3dsmax scenes to use as character models, and Maxis' The Sims, for which players could create custom objects.
noLabel	But though all object-cognition can be doubted, the existence of the doubter remains a fact even in nastika traditions of mayavada schools following Adi Shankara .	The five eternal principles to be discussed under ontology, beginning with God or Isvara, the Ultimate Reality, cannot be established by the means of logic alone, and often require superior proof .
noLabel	In early June 2008, the White House signaled the president might be willing to sign a modified version of the Webb bill, along with the war funding bill, if transferability between spouses and dependents was added onto the new GI Bill.	This would make the benefits more valuable to career military personal that would like to pay for their spouse or child's education .
noLabel	In 1964, a Brazilian land law was passed that supported ownership of the land by the developer: if a person could demonstrate effective cultivation for a year and a day, then that person could claim a right to the land.	This act paved the way for clearing enormous areas of forest for cattle production as developers sought to gain a financial profit from land with which they were provided .
noLabel	If a student does not have a good relationship with his/her parents, the student is more likely to drop out even if he has good grades and good behavior .	This demonstrates that parental support is crucial, as students with good grades and behavior are typically more likely to stay in school .
noLabel	The Washington State Republican Party struggled to find a candidate through most of 2003 when presumed candidate Bob Herbold, a former Executive Vice President and COO of Microsoft, declined to run.	They finally recruited Dino Rossi, a relatively obscure political figure who left the state Senate to pursue a gubernatorial run due to state elected officials being prohibited from raising money while the legislature is in session. 
noLabel	Another study suggested that governments tend to protect domestic industries, and have a habit of shunting monies to ailing sectors; the study suggested that "it is not that government policy picks losers, it is that losers pick government policy.	" One critic suggested that the financial industry has successfully blocked attempts at regulation in the aftermath of the 2008 financial collapse .
noLabel	Concerns have been raised that 'commercial-in-confidence' is open to abuse because it can be deliberately used to hide corporate or government maladministration and even corruption.	A string of publicly scandalous revelations about poor, wasteful or corrupt management of government-funded private contracts left unchecked for lengthy periods, often in prison management, has added credence to the views of skeptics about the prudency of the neoliberal reforms themselves.
noLabel	Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) has been evaluated as an adjunctive treatment following TBI, concluding a Cochrane review stating that its use could not be justified .	HBO for TBI has remained controversial as studies have looked for improvement mechanisms, and further evidence shows that it may have potential as a treatment .
noLabel	Greece agreed to prevent the boats from leaving (that is, those boats not already sabotaged)&nbsp;– though, unlike Clinton, Greece referred rightly to 'the maritime area of Gaza.'	In January 2009, Greece had distinguished itself by refusing to permit U.S. arms to be shipped to Israel from Greek ports during the vicious U.S.-Israeli assault in Gaza.
noLabel	UOPX's parent company settled by paying the government $67.5 million, plus $11 million in legal fees, without admitting any wrongdoing .	In 2004 the Department of Education alleged that UOPX violated Higher Education Act provisions that prohibit offering financial incentives to admission representatives and pressured its recruiters to enroll students .
noLabel	Athletes are subject to testing 365 days a year and testing is not restricted by "off-seasons," training schedules, or competition schedules.	Drug testing programs, like USADA's, that are consistent with the WADA Code, have often been referred to as Olympic style drug testing. 
noLabel	Similarly, George H. Smith (1979) suggested that: "The man who is unacquainted with theism is an atheist because he does not believe in a god.	This category would also include the child with the conceptual capacity to grasp the issues involved, but who is still unaware of those issues.
noLabel	Smoking bans are generally acknowledged to reduce rates of smoking; smoke-free workplaces reduce smoking rates among workers, and restrictions upon smoking in public places reduce general smoking rates through a combination of stigmatisation and reduction in the social cues for smoking .	However, reports in the popular press after smoking bans have been enacted often present conflicting accounts as regards perceptions of effectiveness. 
noLabel	It has been claimed that Israel felt it necessary to destroy the reactor before it was loaded with nuclear fuel, in order to prevent radioactive contamination .	An analysis by Warren Donnelly of the United States Congressional Research Service concluded that "it would be most unlikely for an attack with conventional bombs upon the reactor when operating to have caused lethal exposures to radioactivity in Baghdad, although some people at the reactor site might receive some exposure" . 
noLabel	There are a large number of online casinos in which people can play casino games such as roulette, blackjack, pachinko, baccarat and many others.	These games are played against the "house" which makes money due to the fact that the odds are in its favor.
noLabel	In May 2011, 5,000 people joined an anti-nuclear protest in Taipei City, which was characterized by a carnival-like atmosphere, with protesters holding yellow banners and clutching sunflowers.	This was part of a nationwide “No Nuke Action” protest, urging the government to stop construction of a Fourth Nuclear Plant and pursue a more sustainable energy policy . 
noLabel	This has sometimes been disputed since in effect Sweden allowed in select cases the Nazi regime to use its railroad system to transport troops and goods, especially iron ore from mines in northern Sweden, which was vital to the German war machine .	However, Sweden also indirectly contributed to the defence of Finland in the Winter War, and permitted the training of Norwegian and Danish troops in Sweden after 1943. 
noLabel	Oster's challenge was met with counter arguments of its own as researchers tried to sort out the available data and control for other possible conflating factors.	Avraham Ebenstein questioned Oster's conclusion based on the fact that among first born children the sex ratio is close to the natural one.
noLabel	In addition, Muhammad Ali's Parkinson's disease was said to be caused by his boxing career, but Ali's own physician Ferdie Pacheco MD states in his Book 'Fight Doctor' that Ali's condition is often misquoted and that Ali in fact has Parkinson's Syndrome, which he advises is caused by physical trauma.	However, some maintain that this sort of dementia is precisely diagnosed only in autopsy, and claims of retired athletes not having DP are rarely accompanied by autopsy results.
noLabel	In 1961, Congressman Richard Poff succeeded after several attempts in removing language that restricted the Act's application to territory "within the jurisdiction of the United States, on the high seas, and within the United States" .	He said the need for the Act apply everywhere was prompted by the Scarbeck case, a State Department official charged with yielding to blackmail threats in Poland .
noLabel	In late 2006, the cost of basic commodities began rising sharply in Burma with rice, eggs, and cooking oil increasing by 30–40%.	According to the UN, one in three children is chronically malnourished, government spending on health and education is among the lowest anywhere in the world, and the average income is below $300 a year.
noLabel	For example, a third-grade class may have one teacher who would teach those students for an entire year, then that teacher would teach fourth-grade the next year, and thereby teach the same class again.	The teacher would then revert to the third grade the following year to start the process all over again with a different group of students. 
noLabel	Taylor Hooton's example is extreme, but the use of steroids by athletes and nonathletes in high school is considered even more troubling than the use of them by elite athletes who are involved in widely publicized scandals in sports like football, baseball and track and field, a number of doctors said.	While there are relatively few professional athletes, some doctors estimate that 500,000 to one million high school students, or more, use steroids.
noLabel	The creator (and original copyright holder) benefits, or expects to, from production and marketing capabilities far beyond those of the author.	In the digital age of music, music may be copied and distributed at minimal cost through the Internet, however the record industry attempts to provide promotion and marketing for the artist and his or her work so it can reach a much larger audience.
noLabel	Legal representatives of asylum seekers, such as the UNHCR and the Committee for Civic Assistance, complain that individuals with legitimate claims are being denied asylum without just cause – and where a showing of persecution upon return to their home country is clear and apparent.	Others argue that the law is not being properly implemented because the attention of the Russian authorities in the migration sphere is elsewhere – primarily with combating illegal migration.
noLabel	Her research showed that during their life span only children often become more aware of their only child status and are very much affected by society's stereotype of the only-child whether or not the stereotype is true or false.	She argues in her book, Only Child Experience and Adulthood, that growing up in a predominantly sibling society affects only children and that their lack of sibling relationships can have an important effect on both the way they see themselves and others and how they interact with the world .
noLabel	Fighters who lose by knockout (either by ten count or technical) are automatically suspended 30 days, three months if it is the second knockout within three months, or one year if it is the third knockout within one year.	In AIBA competition, this does not apply if a fighter loses by a technical knockout outclassed, when a fighter is behind more than 20 points—15 for junior levels—in any round except the final round.
noLabel	USADA can sanction athletes found to have committed an ADRV, a process that athletes can either accept or challenge through an established legal process.	In the United States athletes can take a case before an arbitration panel with a final appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. 
noLabel	 Nicotine has been noted to directly cause cancer through a number of different mechanisms such as the activation of MAP Kinases .	Indirectly, nicotine increases cholinergic signalling (and adrenergic signalling in the case of colon cancer), thereby impeding apoptosis (programmed cell death), promoting tumor growth, and activating growth factors and cellular mitogenic factors such as 5-LOX, and EGF.
noLabel	 Italy condemned the Israeli military operation, and supported the UN Security Council resolution calling for an investigation and the release of detainees .	Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini condemned the killing of civilians, saying "I deplore in the strongest terms the killing of civilians.
noLabel	The public health approach is a science-driven, population-based, interdisciplinary, intersectoral approach based on the ecological model which emphasizes primary prevention .	Rather than focusing on individuals, the public health approach aims to provide the maximum benefit for the largest number of people, and to extend better care and safety to entire populations.
noLabel	Men are characterized as either good guys or as bad ones and aggressive behavior is exhibited and expected in either of these roles.	At the same time, women are also depicted in stereotypical role s that are usually related to sexuality in which the woman focuses upon beauty or physical attractiveness or upon traditional family roles . 
noLabel	Alomar said he was opposed to the players' idea because a failed drug test, even one that was failed on purpose, would brand some of the young White Sox players as steroid users.	I understand the point that was trying to be made, but I was upset at how some of the veteran guys were trying to pull some of the young guys into this, Alomar said.
noLabel	A 2001 nuclear posture review published by the Bush administration called for a reduction in the amount of time needed to test a nuclear weapon, and for discussion on possible development in new nuclear weapons of a low-yield, "bunker-busting" design (the Robust Nuclear Earth Penetrator).	Work on such a design had been banned by Congress in 1994, but the banning law was repealed in 2003 at the request of the Department of Defense.
noLabel	House — Repeal a law that takes effect in 2011, requiring government agencies to withhold three percent of payments to contractors to help ensure they pay their tax bills.	Repealing the law would cost $11 billion over 10 years, in part because the government could not earn interest by holding the money throughout the year. 
noLabel	Christian orthodoxy accepts the New Testament claim that Mary, the mother of Jesus, was a virgin at the time Jesus was conceived, based on the accounts in the gospels of Matthew and Luke.	The Roman Catholic, Eastern Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Oriental Orthodox denominations, additionally hold to the dogma of the perpetual virginity of Mary. 
noLabel	A guardian at a place, such as a street, could include security guards or even ordinary pedestrians who would witness the criminal act and possibly intervene or report it to police .	Routine activity theory was expanded by John Eck, who added a fourth element of "place manager" such as rental property managers who can take nuisance abatement measures .
noLabel	Based on all of the evidence and facts presented at the time, the DEA's administrative law judge did not see MDMA and its analogues as being of large concern and recommended that they be placed in Schedule III.	The DEA administrator, expressing concern for abuse potential, overruled the recommendation and ruled that MDMA be put in Schedule I, the Controlled Substances Act's most restrictive category .
noLabel	According to the aforementioned poll, Americans differ drastically based upon situation of the pregnancy, suggesting they do not support unconditional abortions.	Based on two separate polls taken May 19–21, 2003, of 505 and 509 respondents respectively, Americans stated their approval for abortion under these various circumstances: .
noLabel	In Slovenia, a variety of high-school institutions for secondary education exists one can choose in accordance with his or her interests, abilities and beliefs.	The majority of them are public and government-funded, although there are some diocesan upper secondary schools and a Waldorf upper secondary school, which are private and require tuition to be paid. 
noLabel	Colorado citizens voted on Amendment 48 on November 4, 2008, and it failed to pass, with 73.21% voting against it and 26.79% voting for it .	A similar initiative, Amendment 62, made the Colorado ballot on November 2, 2010, where it failed against, this time 70.53% to 29.47% .
noLabel	Most major Canadian oil companies now have SAGD projects in production or under construction in Alberta's oil sands areas and in Wyoming.	Examples include Japan Canada Oil Sands Ltd's (JACOS) project, Suncor's Firebag project, Nexen's Long Lake project, Suncor's (formerly Petro-Canada's) MacKay River project, Husky Energy's Tucker Lake and Sunrise projects, Shell Canada's Peace River project, Cenovus Energy's Foster Creek and Christina Lake developments, ConocoPhillips' Surmont project, Devon Canada's Jackfish project, and Derek Oil & Gas's LAK Ranch project.
noLabel	Human Growth Hormone, which there is now a test for, is rarely tested for either.The reason is partly one of cost.	Blood samples are expensive to transport and store and there are often thousands of miles between Wada-accredited laboratories once you get beyond Europe.
noLabel	One example postulated was that a warrior society could provide special nutritional supplements to poor children, offer scholarships to military academies, and dispatch "warrior skills coaches" to every village as a way to make opportunity substantively more fair .	The idea is give every ambitious and talented youth a chance to compete for prize positions regardless of their circumstances of birth . 
noLabel	At the end of 2009, cumulative global photovoltaic (PV) installations surpassed 21 GW and PV power stations are popular in Germany and Spain .	Solar thermal power stations operate in the USA and Spain, and the largest of these is the 354 megawatt (MW) SEGS power plant in the Mojave Desert . 
noLabel	Another theory communicates the idea that men and boys commit more crimes because of societal pressures to be masculine and aggressive .	A third theory suggests that the manner in which boys are treated by their families calls for more criminal action .
noLabel	At the beginning of the Battle of Monte Cassino in the Second World War, two German officers - the Viennese-born Lt.Col.	Julius Schlegel (a Roman Catholic), and Captain Maximilian Becker (a Protestant) - had the foresight to transfer the Monte Cassino archives to the Vatican.
noLabel	Another issue is that several of the rivers in the region, such as the Platte, run below the water level of the aquifer.	Because of this, the rivers receive groundwater flow (baseflow), carrying it out of the region, rather than supplying recharge to the aquifer.
noLabel	Knowledge on the cost effectiveness of healthcare interventions can be elusive but educational measures to disseminate what works are available, such as the disease control priorities project .	Promoting hand washing is one of the most cost effective health intervention and can cut deaths from the major childhood diseases of diarrhea and pneumonia by half . 
noLabel	In 2009 an ICM poll, commission by the BBC, found that 76% of those asked wanted the monarchy to continue after the Queen, against 18% of people who said they would favour Britain becoming a republic and 6% who said they did not know .	In the wake of the 2009 MP's expenses scandal, a poll of readers of the Guardian and Observer newspapers placed support for abolition of the monarchy at 54%, although only 3% saw it as a top priority . 
noLabel	However, at least some of the apparent or alleged causality is difficult to confirm quantitatively, because the data collection and analysis that would be required to do so faces high barriers to implementation, principally the privacy surrounding the accountancy.	There is a common theme among working people, although it is not widely studied or reported in reliable academic or journalistic sources, along the lines that firms are "using the recession as an excuse" for staff reductions whose true root causes lie elsewhere, such as: 
noLabel	According to the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, the concept assumes that society is stratified with a diverse range of roles, some of which are more desirable than others .	And the benefit of equality of opportunity is to bring fairness to the selection process for coveted roles in corporations, associations, nonprofits, universities, and elsewhere .
noLabel	Most states have at most one monarch at any given time, although a regent may rule when the monarch is a minor, not present, or otherwise incapable of ruling.	Two monarchs have ruled simultaneously in some countries, as in the ancient Greek city-state of Sparta or the joint sovereignty of spouses or relatives (e.g.
noLabel	Facebook had already blocked access to the page for users from India the previous week, at the request of the Indian authorities .	On May 30, 2010, the day before the Facebook ban in Pakistan was lifted, Bangladesh imposed its own ban on Facebook .
noLabel	In majority judgment, strategy is typically "semi-honest exaggeration"; that is, voters exaggerate the difference between a certain pair of candidates, but do not rank any less-preferred candidate over any more-preferred one.	Even this form of exaggeration can only have an effect if the voter's honest rating for the intended winner is below that candidate's median rating or their honest rating for the intended loser is above it.
noLabel	The amount of liaison and casework involved in this process was very laborious and a well established system was dismantled in 1999 during the IND Casework Programme restructuring, (see previous sections).	This instability coincided not only with a steep rise in the numbers of foreign prisoners as described above, but also with the growth of asylum applications.
noLabel	In 1986, hundreds of people walked from Los Angeles to Washington DC in the Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament .	There were many Nevada Desert Experience protests and peace camps at the Nevada Test Site during the 1980s and 1990s . 
noLabel	Another new party is being formed comprising members of a ceasefire group and a party that won seats in the 1990 elections.	Five former members of the New Mon State Party (NMSP) and five members of Mon National Democratic Front (MNDF) together with five other Mon elites, who make up the new party, founded a 15-member committee and later announced that they are not going to participate in the upcoming election . 
noLabel	Index Index, a round up of abuses of freedom of expression worldwide, continued to be published in each edition of the magazine until December 2008, when this function was transferred to the website.	The offences against free expression documented in that first issue’s Index Index listing included censorship in Greece and Spain, then dictatorships, and Brazil, which had just banned the film Zabriskie Point on the grounds that it ‘insulted a friendly power’ – the United States, where it had been made and freely shown. 
noLabel	Writing for The American Spectator, Jeremy Lott commented positively about the protest movement: "While the suits at Comedy Central and Yale University Press have been cowed, people across the country have decided to speak up and thereby magnify the offense a thousandfold.	" Helge Rønning, a professor at the Institute of Media and Communication at the University of Oslo, said the offense to Muslims was outweighed by freedom-of-speech concerns.
noLabel	De Vries distinguished between what he called "methodological naturalism," a disciplinary method that says nothing about God's existence, and "metaphysical naturalism," which "denies the existence of a transcendent God.	" The term "methodological naturalism" had been used in 1937 by Edgar S. Brightman in an article in The Philosophical Review as a contrast to "naturalism" in general, but there the idea was not really developed to its more recent distinctions . 
noLabel	More recently, articles in various financial periodicals, most notably Forbes magazine, have pointed to Fidel Castro, General Secretary of the Republic of Cuba since 1959, of likely being the beneficiary of up to $900 million, based on "his control" of state-owned companies .	Opponents of his regime claim that he has used money amassed through weapons sales, narcotics, international loans, and confiscation of private property to enrich himself and his political cronies who hold his dictatorship together, and that the $900 million published by Forbes is merely a portion of his assets, although that needs to be proven .
noLabel	The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (“UNHCR”) and the Committee for Civic Assistance (“CCA”) provide legal consulting to refugees and forced migrants, mediate between refugees and the authorities, defend refugees in the courts, and advocate for refugee rights to housing and work.	In connection with these tasks, both organizations have constant contact with all structures dealing with refugee problems: the Federal Migration Service, regional migration services, and the Commission on Refugees in the State Duma .
noLabel	In March 2011 Gove was criticised for not understanding the importance of school architecture and having previously misrepresented the cost .	In February 2011, he gave "not-quite-true information to Parliament" by saying that one individual made £1m in one year when the true figure was £700k for 5 advisers at different times over a 4 year period .
noLabel	Many states that have abolished conscription therefore still reserve the power to resume it during wartime or times of crisis .	In the United States, conscription, also called "the draft", ended in 1973, but males between 18 and 25 are required to register with the Selective Service System to enable a reintroduction of conscription if necessary.
noLabel	The AAP and its members work at the local level in hospitals, offices and clinics and in state and federal government to protect the well being of children.	With support and resources from the AAP, pediatricians communicate with legislators, testify, coordinate media events and participate in appropriate election activities. 
noLabel	In the Palestinian parliamentary elections held on January 25, 2006, Hamas won a plurality of 42.9% of the total vote and 74 out of 132 total seats (56%) .	When Hamas assumed power the next month, the Israeli government and the key players of the international community, the United States and the EU refused to recognize its right to govern the Palestinian Authority.
noLabel	1965: Goldfinger played for six weeks before the Nazi past of Gert Fröbe, who played the title villain, was disclosed, despite him leaving the party in 1937 .	However the ban was lifted once a Jewish Family publicly thanked him for hiding two German Jews from the Gestapo in World War Two. 
noLabel	In the modern world, economic growth and the spread of democracy have raised the value of education and increased the importance of ensuring that all children and adults have access to high quality and effective education.	Modern education reforms are increasingly driven by a growing understanding of what works in education and how to go about successfully improving teaching and learning in schools .
noLabel	After the meeting, Governor Stanley told the press that his plan would make Virginia school systems immune to any integrationist litigation .	The onus of school closures, he said, would be on African Americans who "force themselves into a school of another race" . 
noLabel	The first Soviet test of a hydrogen bomb was on August 12, 1953 and was nicknamed Joe 4 by the Americans.	It used a layer-cake design of fission and fusion fuels (uranium 235 and lithium-6 deuteride) and produced a yield of 400 kilotons, mostly from neutron-initiated fission rather than fusion.
noLabel	Among the most popular filtering software programs is SmartFilter by Secure Computing in California, which was bought by McAfee in 2008.	SmartFilter has been used by Tunisia, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, the UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Iran, and Oman, as well as the United States and the UK .
noLabel	Coastal and marine environments also have reduced biodiversity from reduced water quality caused by pollution and sediments arising from human settlements and agriculture.	In central New South Wales where there are large plains of grassland, problems have risen from—unusual to say—lack of land clearing. 
noLabel	European Parliament President Hans-Gert Pöttering expressed his "deepest regret" over the escalation of the Gaza conflict between Israel and Hamas, calling for an "immediate end to the violence on both sides" .	EU Humanitarian aid chief Louis Michel called the destruction left by Israel's offensive "abominable", but said Hamas bore "overwhelming responsibility" .
noLabel	A survey conducted in Britain, Canada and the United States by Angus Reid Public Opinion in November 2011 asked adult respondents to look back to the time when they were teenagers, and describe how useful several sources were in enabling them to learn more about sex.	By far, the largest proportion of respondents in the three countries (74% in Canada, 67% in Britain and 63% in the United States) said that conversations with friends were “very useful” or “moderately useful.” The next reputable source was the media (television, books, movies, magazines), mentioned by three-in-five Britons (65%) and Canadians (62%) and more than half of Americans (54%) as useful. 
noLabel	Asylum was a niche market within the administration of immigration control where the entire asylum casework effort in 1980 was delivered by a team largely located in a single room within the Lunar House HQ in Croydon.	The application of the 1951 Convention dealing with the treatment of refugees was still being applied, to a large extent, to those people fleeing persecution from behind the Iron Curtain. 
noLabel	"Even though there does not exist strong evidence that any particular abstinence program is effective at delaying sex or reducing sexual behavior, one should not conclude that all abstinence programs are ineffective.	After all, programs are diverse, fewer than 10 rigorous studies of these programs have been carried out, and studies of two programs have provided modestly encouraging results.
noLabel	Complex tariffs make it more difficult for developing country exporters to access industrialised-country markets because of the disadvantages developing countries face in accessing, and in their capacity to process, information.	Not only are price signals distorted, they are often unclear, subject to change (for example seasonally) and difficult to interpret .
noLabel	Most of these institutes focus on a form of economics called macroeconomics which keeps its eyes on things such as inflation: the rate at which money loses its value over time; growth: how much money a government has and how quickly it accrues money; unemployment, and rates of trade between other countries.	Whereas microeconomics deals with individual firms, people, and other institutions that work within a set frame work of rules to balance prices and the workings of a singular government. 
noLabel	Many opponents of school choice such as Martin Carnoy argue that public schools perform similarly to private schools when teaching similar groups of students, and that the conception of public schools as "failing" in comparison to private schools is more due to the demographic differences between public and private schools than to actual differences in the quality of the education the schools offer.	"School choice" as it entails a switch from public to private schooling would therefore do little to solve the problems facing the educational system, since a private school would perform no better than a public school when faced with exactly the same student body. 
noLabel	In seeking to counteract the arguments of nuclear opponents, it points to independent studies that quantify the costs and benefits of nuclear energy and compares them to the costs and benefits of alternatives.	NEI sponsors studies of its own, but it also references studies performed for the World Health Organisation, for the International Energy Agency, and by university researchers . 
noLabel	Meanwhile, a new threat arose from abroad: Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, Frederick William II of Prussia, and the King's brother Charles-Philippe, comte d'Artois, issued the Declaration of Pillnitz, which considered the cause of Louis XVI as their own, demanded his absolute liberty and implied an invasion of France on his behalf if the revolutionary authorities refused its conditions .	The French people expressed no respect for the dictates of foreign monarchs, and the threat of force merely hastened their militarisation . 
noLabel	In the first group, the data indicated families arranging marriage for daughters as close to puberty as possible with significantly older men.	Age of men at sexual initiation in these societies is at later ages than that of women, but is often extra-marital.
noLabel	1) The current Chiapas State Government, elected in 2000, qualified as beneficiary institution in this EC project due to its reconciliatory position in the conflict between federal government and ELZN, that has been recognised by the latter on several occasions.	[..] After its election, the Government of Chiapas also politically assumed the principles of the San Andrés Agreement between the federal Mexican government and the EZLN, as well as the 169 ILO Convention. 
noLabel	The socially accepted institutionalized manner of achieving these material goals was believed to be hard work and education, meaning it is widely believed that people who apply themselves to study and work will succeed financially and that those who do not succeed are labeled as either lazy or defective.	According to Merton, the problem with this type of society is that the legitimate means for achieving material success are not uniformly distributed.
noLabel	During World War I, postal censorship was in force, as the French state thought it necessary to control the public's morale and thus engaged in a sort of psychological warfare.	Censorship was current during the war, leading to the 1915 creation of Le Canard enchaîné weekly, which used satires and other games of words to pass through "Anastasia's scissors", as was popularly called the censors (such words games still exist in Le Canard, for leisure purposes, such as the section named "Sur l'album de la Comtesse"). 
noLabel	Sociologists Christopher Jencks and Meredith Phillips have argued that narrowing the black-white test score gap "would do more to move [the United States] toward racial equality than any politically plausible alternative" .	As already discussed, there is also strong evidence that narrowing the gap would have a significant positive economic and social impact . 
noLabel	These results suggest that minority residential segregation may influence mortality risk and underscore the traditional emphasis on the social underpinnings of disease and death .	Rates of heart disease among African Americans are associated with the segregation patterns in the neighborhoods where they live (Fang et al.
noLabel	In addition, they found that this cooling caused a weakening of the global hydrological cycle, reducing global precipitation by about 45%.	As for the 50 Tg case involving one third of current nuclear arsenals, they said that the simulation "produced climate responses very similar to those for the 150 Tg case, but with about half the amplitude," but that "the time scale of response is about the same."
noLabel	Individual psychological or behavioural risk factors that may make offending more likely include low intelligence, impulsiveness or the inability to delay gratification, aggression, empathy, and restlessness .	Other risk factors which may be evident during childhood and adolescence include, aggressive or troublesome behavior, language delays or impairments, lack of emotional control (learning to control one's anger), and cruelty to animals. 
noLabel	The generation opened early for handheld consoles, as Nintendo introduced their Nintendo DS and Sony premiered the PlayStation Portable (PSP) within a month of each other in 2004.	While the PSP boasted superior graphics and power, following a trend established since the mid 1980s, Nintendo gambled on a lower-power design but featuring a novel control interface.
noLabel	Sutherland called the publication an important review of the history of education in Utah while critics just called it revisionist history .	Sutherland then released the subsequent companion article in a law journal as part of an academic conference about school choice . 
noLabel	The state itself began to take a greater role in censorship over the University and in 1566, the Ordonnance of Moulins was issued, banning the writing, printing or selling of defamatory books attacking individual's good reputations and requiring that all books published must be approved and include the privilege and the great seal .	The state control was strengthened in 1571 by the edict of Gaillon which placed enforcement of the censorship laws in the Chancellor's office instead of the University . 
noLabel	In the future depicted in Brian Stableford's "The Halcyon Drift", one of the leading planets in the Galaxy is "New Alexandria", whose inhabitants are dedicated to the preservation and extension of knowledge, and are brought up to regard the destruction of books as the most heinous of deeds.	Nevertheless, a protagonist agrees to help the Khor-Monsa, an alien species, in destroying books and records of their remote ancestors which were found in a drifting spaceship—since the books contained a shameful secret whose publication might have led to the present Khor-Monsa losing their social status and becoming targets of discrimination.
noLabel	Role-playing video games (commonly referred to as role-playing games or RPGs) are a video game genre where the player controls a character, and lives as this character when immersed in a fictional world.	Many role playing games have origins in pen-and-paper role-playing games such as Dungeons & Dragons, using much of the same terminology, settings and game mechanics.
noLabel	Real family income for the bottom 20% increased by 7.4% from 1979 to 2009 while it increased by 49% for the top 20% and increased by 22.7% for the second top fifth of American families .	As of 2007, the United Nations estimated the ratio of average income for the top 10% to the bottom 10% of Americans, via the Gini Coefficient, as 15.9:1.
noLabel	A different development occurred in South Korea which in the early 1990s had one of the highest male to female ratios in the world.	By 2007 however, South Korea, had a male to female ratio comparable to that found in Western Europe, US and Sub Saharan Africa. 
noLabel	Nuclear weapons delivery—the technology and systems used to bring a nuclear weapon to its target—is an important aspect of nuclear weapons relating both to nuclear weapon design and nuclear strategy.	Additionally, development and maintenance of delivery options is among the most resource-intensive aspects of a nuclear weapons program: according to one estimate, deployment costs accounted for 57% of the total financial resources spent by the United States in relation to nuclear weapons since 1940 . 
noLabel	Judge Bridges noted that there was evidence that 1,678 votes had been illegally cast throughout the state, but found that the only evidence submitted to show how those votes had been cast were sworn statements from four felons that they had voted for Rossi .	He stated that the judiciary should exercise restraint; "unless an election is clearly invalid, when the people have spoken, their verdict should not be disturbed by the court.
noLabel	The interviews revealed recipient governments felt "predictability" meant donors should provide funding within the quarters scheduled, the Paris Declaration work on an annual basis and makes no distinction between the first and fourth quarter.	Also mentioned, were the differences between pledges and actual commitments, the need to speed up the approval process and the need to make explicit and achievable conditions on the aid, to prevent withholding of funds when minor conditions are not fully achieved.
noLabel	The U.S. Supreme Court consolidated the case, Davis v. County School Board of Prince Edward County, with Brown v. Board of Education, and as part of its ruling in Brown ordered that the Prince Edward County public schools integrate.	By 1959, a second lawsuit was working its way through the federal court system in Virginia, and this suit seemed likely to force the county's schools to integrate in time for the 1959-1960 school term.
noLabel	They are obtained by applying to the different state programs and are offered in the form of cash or tax credits.	Grant programs offer a way to pay for large portions of wind project initial costs and help support a national renewable energy system to be less dependent on traditional energy sources, and to protect the environment from future harm. 
noLabel	By October 2012, right in time for the presidential election, restrictive laws and two such executive actions were adopted in 13 states.	In June, in its landmark Shelby County v Holder ruling, the supreme court struck down a key provision of the Voting Rights Act of 1965: section 4, the formula which determined which states had to get pre-clearance from the feds before changing any of their voting registration laws.
noLabel	In 2004, an international collaborative study on four continents estimated that 10 percent of species would become extinct by 2050 because of global warming.	"We need to limit climate change or we wind up with a lot of species in trouble, possibly extinct," said Dr. Lee Hannah, a co-author of the paper and chief climate change biologist at the Center for Applied Biodiversity Science at Conservation International .
noLabel	Unlike the international banks, shipping companies have been the primary target of the public outcry over the illegal logging and timber trading in Madagascar.	Several companies were shown to have been involved in the shipping of rosewood, but most willingly ended their participation when the issue was called to their attention .
noLabel	At Marquette University, philosophy department chairman James South ordered graduate student Stuart Ditsler to remove an unattributed Dave Barry quote from the door to the office that Ditsler shared with three other teaching assistants, calling the quote patently offensive.	(The quote was: "As Americans we must always remember that we all have a common enemy, an enemy that is dangerous, powerful, and relentless.
noLabel	Draft boards were localized and based their decisions on social class: the poorest were the most often conscripted because they were considered the most expendable at home.	African Americans in particular were often disproportionately drafted, though they generally were conscripted as laborers and not sent into combat to avoid the tensions that would arise from mixing races in military units.
noLabel	However, no binding decision has been made during the cabinet meeting, and an announcement issued in Hebrew did not mention any such decision.	The Prime Minister's office said that a meeting would be held soon, and expressed hope that a binding decision will be taken then . 
noLabel	It is only through close co-operation with law enforcement and a greater willingness to pursue so-called "non-analytical" cases that there is a chance of turning the tide.	Perhaps that will be the only way of getting to the truth in those sports and jurisdictions that resolutely drag their feet.The practicalities of waging a global war are also against those looking to clean up sport.
noLabel	Three days later, Israel's Security Cabinet approved a new system governing the blockade that would allow practically all non-military or dual-use items to enter the Gaza strip.	Israel stated it would expand the transfer of construction materials designated for projects that have been approved by the Palestinian Authority as well as projects that are under international supervision .
noLabel	In the form of a noun, strain is known as a great or excessive effort or striving after some goal, object, or effect.	Thus, it is rational to grasp how strain theory insinuates that social structures within society may ultimately pressure citizens to commit crime. 
noLabel	On the same day, the IAEA's Mohamed ElBaradei criticized the raid, saying that to bomb first and ask questions later "undermines the system and it doesn't lead to any solution to any suspicion.	" The IAEA had been observing the disabling of the DPRK Yongbyon nuclear facilities since July 2007, and was responsible for the containment and surveillance of the fuel rods and other nuclear materials from there . 
noLabel	Amateur boxing emerged as a sport during the mid-to-late 19th century, partly as a result of the moral controversies surrounding professional prize-fighting.	Originally lampooned as an effort by upper and middle-class gentlemen to co-opt a traditionally working class sport, the safer, "scientific" style of boxing found favor in schools, universities and in the armed forces, although the champions still usually came from among the urban poor. 
noLabel	In her book The Price of Privilege, psychologist Madeline Levine found that children of wealthy families were more likely to suffer psychological dysfunctions such as anxiety and depression.	By spending so much time in organized after-school activities, and missing out on time or emotional closeness with their families, they fail to develop self management which is a powerful precursor to both psychological inner strength and academic achievement. 
noLabel	This was the beginning of the Manhattan Project, run as the Manhattan Engineering District (MED), an agency under military control which was in charge of developing the first atomic weapons.	After World War II, the MED maintained control over the U.S. arsenal and production facilities and coordinated the Operation Crossroads tests.
noLabel	The defeat of the Prussian Army in particular shocked the Prussian establishment, which had believed it was invincible after the victories of Frederick the Great.	The Prussians were used to relying on superior organization and tactical factors such as order of battle to focus superior troops against inferior ones.
noLabel	Even if it were somehow possible to hermetically seal the U.S.-Mexico border and shut off all the guns coming from the United States, the cartels would still be able to obtain weapons elsewhere — just as narcotics would continue to flow into the United States from other places.	The United States does provide cheap and easy access to certain types of weapons and ammunition, but as demonstrated by groups such as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, weapons can be easily obtained from other sources via the black arms market — albeit at a higher price" .
noLabel	Examples of simple changes intended to reduce violence for non-violent FPSes include the alteration of the red shroud from the death-sequence in Doom to become the green shroud from the slime-sequence in Chex Quest or the removal of the red shroud from the death-sequence in Half-Life 2 for the deaths in Portal.	At times, similarities between violent progenitors and their non-violent descendants have proved strong enough that the non-violent developers have cast their game as a spoof of the violent version.
noLabel	The term "discrimination" began to be used as an expression of derogatory racial prejudice in the 1830s from Thomas D. Rice's performances as "Jim Crow".	Since the American Civil War the term "discrimination" generally evolved in American English usage as an understanding of prejudicial treatment of an individual based solely on their race, later generalized as membership in a certain socially undesirable group or social category .
noLabel	In the early-mid 2000s, Greece's economy was strong and the government took advantage by running a large deficit, partly due to high defense spending amid historic enmity to Turkey.	As the world economy cooled in the late 2000s, Greece was hit especially hard because its main industries — shipping and tourism — were especially sensitive to changes in the business cycle.
noLabel	Birth control is an umbrella term for several techniques and methods used to prevent fertilization or to interrupt pregnancy at various stages.	Birth control techniques and methods include contraception (the prevention of fertilization), contragestion (the prevention of the implantation of the blastocyst) and abortion (the removal or expulsion of a fetus or embryo from the uterus).
noLabel	Each of these laws have been criticized by some groups, either from the left (especially concerning the 1970 law on drugs) or from the far right (in particular concerning the 1990 Gayssot Act or the laws prohibiting homophobic attacks).	Others express the need for minorities to be protected from hate speech which may lead, according to them, to heinous acts and hate crimes, while still others claim that one can not tolerate free speech concerning drugs as it is a matter of public health and moral order.
noLabel	The bidding is expected to lead to the construction of two gigawatts of wind production with an investment of about US$ 6 billion of over the next two years.	Brazil counts on hydroelectricity for more than 3/4 of its electricity, but authorities are pushing biomass and wind as primary alternatives.
noLabel	Ronald Dworkin argues that in exchange for toleration, minorities must bear with the criticisms and insults which are part of the freedom of speech in an otherwise tolerant society .	Dworkin has also questioned whether the United States is a "tolerant secular" nation, or is re-characterizing itself as a "tolerant religious" nation, based on the increasing re-introduction of religious themes into conservative politics.
noLabel	This is held to be true because without civil and political rights the public cannot assert their economic, social and cultural rights.	Similarly, without livelihoods and a working society, the public cannot assert or make use of civil or political rights (known as the full belly thesis). 
noLabel	The laissez faire principle expresses the preference for an absence of non-market pressures on prices such as those from government taxes, subsidies, tariffs, regulation (other than protection from coercion and theft), or government-granted or coercive monopolies.	As developed in Hayek's The Pure Theory of Capital, the goal is the preservation of the unique information contained in the price itself.
noLabel	Oran's Dictionary of the Law (1983) defines treason as "..[a]..citizen's actions to help a foreign government overthrow, make war against, or seriously injure the [parent nation]."	In many nations, it is also often considered treason to attempt or conspire to overthrow the government, even if no foreign country is aided or involved by such an endeavour. 
noLabel	During the four years of wartime occupation from 1941–1944, the Axis (German, Hungarian and NDH) forces committed numerous war crimes against the civilian population of Serbs, Roma and Jews in the former Yugoslavia: about 50,000 people in Vojvodina (north Serbia) (see Occupation of Vojvodina, 1941–1944) were murdered and about 280,000 were arrested, raped or tortured .	The total number of people killed under Hungarian occupation in Bačka was 19,573, in Banat 7,513 (under German occupation) and in Syrmia 28,199 (under Croatian occupation) .
noLabel	They were faced with a nutritional decline because of the elimination of the generous supply of wild game that had inhabited the now-disappearing forests, which throughout medieval times had provided the staple of their carnivorous high-protein diet.	By 1500 Europe was on the edge of a fuel and nutritional disaster [from] which it was saved in the sixteenth century only by the burning of soft coal and the cultivation of potatoes and maize.
noLabel	These cards were tallied by a small army of junior clerical staff in the Croydon HQ and those who had no “pair” could be assumed not to have left.	In practice, the value of the cards as a clear indicator that a person had overstayed was limited and its value as a trigger for pro-active investigations was questionable.
noLabel	Years 12 and 13 are often referred to as "lower sixth form" and "upper sixth form" respectively, reflecting their distinct, voluntary nature as the A-level years.	While most secondary schools enter their pupils for A-levels, some state schools have joined the independent sector in offering the International Baccalaureate or Cambridge Pre-U qualifications instead. 
noLabel	Geothermal wells release greenhouse gases trapped deep within the earth, but these emissions are much lower per energy unit than those of fossil fuels.	As a result, geothermal power has the potential to help mitigate global warming if widely deployed in place of fossil fuels. 
noLabel	Rawson W. Rawson utilized crime statistics to suggest a link between population density and crime rates, with crowded cities creating an environment conducive for crime .	Joseph Fletcher and John Glyde also presented papers to the Statistical Society of London on their studies of crime and its distribution .
noLabel	Article 7 of the Dutch Grondwet in its first paragraph grants everybody the right to make public ideas and feelings by printing them without prior censorship, but not exonerating the author from his liabilities under the law.	The second paragraph says that radio and television will be regulated by law but that there will be no prior censorship dealing with the content of broadcasts.
noLabel	While food does have a metabolic cost to digest, absorb, and store, called the thermic effect of food, it depends on the quantity and type of food, not how the food is spread across the meals of the day.	Well-controlled studies using whole-body calorimetry and doubly labeled water have demonstrated that there is no metabolic advantage to eating more frequently .
noLabel	On 20 August 2010, WikiLeaks released a publication entitled Loveparade 2010 Duisburg planning documents, 2007–2010, which comprised 43 internal documents regarding the Love Parade 2010 .	Following on from the leak of information from the Afghan War, in October 2010, around 400,000 documents relating to the Iraq War were released in October.
noLabel	Tracking is predominantly used to help organize a classroom, so that there the variability of academic ability in classes is decreased.	Students are tracked based on their ability level, generally based on a standardized test after which they are given different course requirements.
noLabel	Beyond the K-12 domain, other life skills programs are focused on social welfare and social work programs, such as Casey Life Skills .	This program covers diverse topics: career planning, communication, daily living, home life, housing and money management, self care, social relationships, work and study skills, work life, pregnancy and parenting . 
noLabel	Parliamentary systems have the right to dismiss a Prime Minister at any point in time that they feel he or she is not doing their job to the expectations of the legislature.	This is done through a Vote of No Confidence where the legislature decides whether or not to remove the Prime Minister from office by a majority support for his or her dismissal .
noLabel	In recent years, these trends have in turn been adopted by Western RPGs, which have begun moving more towards tightly structured narratives, in addition to moving away from "numbers and rules" in favour of streamlined combat systems similar to action games .	In addition, a large number of Western independent games are modelled after Japanese RPGs, especially those of the 16-bit era, partly due to the RPG Maker game development tools . 
noLabel	Media support for ice hockey has improved on a national level, although the majority of news is still found on the internet.	Sky Sports has been covering the Elite league for a few seasons, and starting in the 2010/2011 season they will be showing 8 live games and a highlight show every week; the reason this deal happened was due to the elite league attracting very large viewing figures and Sky seeing the Elite Ice Hockey League as a potentially big and popular league. 
noLabel	The viewpoint that firearms were an integral part of the settling of the United States has the least level of support in urban and industrialized regions .	Where a cultural tradition of conflating violence and associating gun ownership with the "redneck" stereotype has played a part in promoting the support of gun regulation . 
noLabel	The 'Gesetz zur Bewahrung der Jugend vor Schund- und Schmutzschriften' (Law for the Protection of Youth from Trash and Filth Writings) from the 18th of December, 1926 provided for the partial censorship (restrictions on distribution) of printed materials in the interest of youth welfare, though it was only applied post-publication on a case-by-case basis.	Furthermore, it incorporated limits to what could be censored and on what grounds; printed materials could not be added to the index for political, social, religious, ethical, or world-view-related reasons .
noLabel	In his article, "America as a Gun Culture," historian Richard Hofstadter popularized the phrase gun culture to describe the long-held affections for firearms within America, many citizens embracing and celebrating the association of guns and America's heritage .	The right to own a gun and defend oneself is considered by some, especially those in the West and South, as a central tenet of the American identity.
noLabel	For all PEGI members, they use it as their sole system, with the exception of the UK, where if a game contains certain material, it must be rated by BBFC.	The PEGI ratings are legally binding in Vienna and it is a criminal offence to sell a game to someone if it is rated above their age .
noLabel	At the same time, several U.S. government officials have criticized WikiLeaks for exposing classified information and claimed that the leaks harm national security and compromise international diplomacy .	Several human rights organisations requested with respect to earlier document releases that WikiLeaks adequately redact the names of civilians working with international forces, in order to prevent repercussions .
noLabel	Judge Hand affirmed that if a citizen “stops short of urging upon others that it is their duty or their interest to resist the law,” then he or she is protected by the First Amendment.	One may, for example, “admire” resistors of the draft, but may not, under the “incitement” test, “counsel or advise” someone to violate the law at a specific time and place.
noLabel	The Roman Catholic Church opposes all forms of abortion procedures whose intended and primary purpose is to destroy an embryo, blastocyst, zygote or fetus.	Catholics who support this position say that it is based on a belief in the equality of all human life, and that human life begins at conception.
noLabel	This major reappraisal and consolidation of immigration law coincided with an expansion of the Immigration Branch administrative HQ, change of name and a change of location.	In 1970 the Immigration Branch became the Immigration and Nationality Department and, in 1972, it relocated from High Holborn to Croydon where it took up residence at the recently built Lunar House. 
noLabel	The actual cost of paying to keep a power station idle, but usable at short notice, may be estimated from published spark spreads and dark spreads.	As existing traditional plant ages, the cost of replacing or refurbishing these facilities will become part of the cost of high-penetration wind if they are used only to provide operational reserve. 
noLabel	In districts hundreds of kilometers from ground zero, wooden houses were destroyed, stone ones lost their roofs, windows and doors; and radio communications were interrupted for almost one hour.	One participant in the test saw a bright flash through dark goggles and felt the effects of a thermal pulse even at a distance of .
noLabel	Major big tobacco lobbying companies include (in order of U.S. market share) Philip Morris, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, and Lorillard Tobacco Co.	The tobacco lobby lost a chunk of its support when the U.S. National Association of Attorneys General (NAAG) filed charges against the Tobacco Institute, a tobacco industry advocacy group. 
noLabel	On 2 July 2007, he was promoted to the Shadow Cabinet as Shadow Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families (a new department set up by the Prime Minister Gordon Brown) shadowing Ed Balls, a key supporter of Brown .	Prior to the 2010 general election, most of his questions in House of Commons debates concerned children, schools and families, education, local government, Council Tax, Foreign Affairs, and the environment . 
noLabel	In R v Gathercole (1838), the defendant was convicted of criminal libel for publishing an attack on a Roman Catholic nunnery.	Alderson B., in his direction to the jury, said that "a person may, without being liable to prosecution for it, attack Judaism, or Mahomedanism, or even any sect of the Christian religion (save the established religion of the country); and the only reason why the latter is in a different situation from the others is, because it is the form established by law, and is therefore a part of the constitution of the country.
noLabel	When King Edward IV died in 1483, Elizabeth (who was highly unpopular with even the Yorkists and probably did need protection) took her five daughters and youngest son (Richard, Duke of York) and again moved into sanctuary at Westminster.	To be sure she had all the comforts of home, she brought so much furniture and so many chests that the workmen had to knock holes in some of the walls to get everything in fast enough to suit her .
noLabel	" Peter Kilfoyle, a former Labour defence minister, accused Israel of "state-sponsored terrorism" and urged the government to "ensure no arms were exported to the country."	Sir Menzies Campbell, the former Liberal Democrat leader, said "if any other democratic state had behaved in the same way, it would be faced with economic sanctions."
noLabel	In 1993 a program was initiated to strengthen and extend the classical safeguards system, and a model protocol was agreed by the IAEA Board of Governors 1997.	The measures boosted the IAEA's ability to detect undeclared nuclear activities, including those with no connection to the civil fuel cycle. 
noLabel	Sources confirmed that the army had raided the six-storied Religious Science Monastery in Chaukhtatgyi Pagoda, Moe Kaung Monastery in Yan Kin township, Maggin Monastery in Thingankyun township, and Thein Phyu monastery in Thein Phyu area and arrested several monks .	An anonymous diplomat also said the junta claimed soldiers now had the monks "under control" and "would now turn their attention to civilian protesters" . 
noLabel	The "real, true issues are not being addressed by the political process because of the influence of lobbyists, of the true powerful entities," he said, speaking at the Compassion in World Farming annual forum.	For example, recent proposals for a voluntary code of conduct for the livestock industry that would have provided incentives for improving standards for health, and environmental regulations, such as the number of animals an area of land can support without long-term damage, were successfully defeated due to large food company pressure .
noLabel	Rossi won the endorsement of the Republican Party, the National Rifle Association, The Seattle Times, several business and medical associations, and former governor Dan Evans.	Gregoire received the endorsement of the Democratic Party, GLAAD, the Seattle Post-Intelligencer, pro-choice organizations, and all the previous Democratic governors of the state.
noLabel	Military expert, who testified in front of the fact-finding UNHCR mission in July 2009, said that rockets launched from Gaza Strip belong to Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) type of weapon that incorporate “destructive, lethal, noxious, pyrotechnic materials” that are used in 70% of global terror attacks.	He further noticed that the level of lethal damage of IEDs is low compared to other means and that their primary impact on the target is psychological .
noLabel	Glass, 1999, stated that Jewish ritual circumcision is so quick that "most mohelim do not routinely use any anaesthesia as they feel there is probably no need in the neonate."	Glass continued, "However, there is no Talmudic objection and should the parents wish for local anaesthetic cream to be applied there is no reason why this cannot be done."
noLabel	" It also contained text that aspired to bind future Parliaments, though under English constitutional law no Parliament can bind any later Parliament .	Nevertheless, the English Bill of Rights remains an important constitutional document, more for enumerating the rights of Parliament over the monarchy than for its clause concerning a right to have arms. 
noLabel	The German Hotel and Restaurant Association (DEHOGA) claimed that the smoking ban deterred people from going out for a drink or meal, stating that 15% of establishments that adopted a ban in 2007 saw turnover fall by around 50% .	Smoking is not permitted in any public transit or in or around railway stations except for the locations expressly indicated for smoking.
noLabel	These exporters are supplied by a regional network of collectors and subcollectors, which procures the wood and transports it from the protected forests to the nearest major port, all through the paid labor of teams of young local men who receive between 5,000 and 10,000 ariary, or around US$2.50 to $5.00 per day .	This income, which is sometimes not paid, is equivalent to less than 2% of the export value of the logs they cut and transport .
noLabel	Console RPGs often featured intricately related characters who had distinctive personalities and traits, with many of them seeming to offer more of the traditional role-playing, with players assuming the roles of people who cared about each other, fell in love or even had families.	Romance in particular was a theme that was common in most console RPGs at the time but absent from most computer RPGs .
noLabel	Later Dominican Republic also signed a joint statement of the Central America Regional Integration System that called for "an immediate withdrawal of the Israeli army".	The resolution also demands that the United Nations Security Council "intensify the efforts to recover the stability in the zone" of the conflict in compliance of its function to maintain peace and international security .
noLabel	There is only one verb 'to tolerate' and one adjective 'tolerant', but the two nouns 'tolerance' and 'toleration' have evolved slightly different meanings.	Tolerance is an attitude of mind that implies non-judgmental acceptance of different lifestyles or beliefs, whereas toleration implies putting up with something that one disapproves of. 
noLabel	reports that the crude oil routed to the Gulf Coast will end up being exported to Asia, and not contribute to energy independence or national security .	TransCanada CEO Russ Girling has argued that "the U.S. needs 10 million barrels a day of imported oil" and the debate over the proposed pipeline "is not a debate of oil versus alternative energy.
noLabel	Mass media content created for newsworthy events and those stories that are not told all have Television broadcasting has a large amount of control over the content society watches and the times in which it is viewed.	This is a distinguishing feature of traditional media which New media have challenged by altering the participation habits of the public.
noLabel	Throughout the 1950s and the early 1960s a number of trends were enacted between the U.S. and the USSR as they both endeavored in a tit-for-tat approach to disallow the other power from acquiring nuclear supremacy.	This took form in a number of ways, both technologically and politically, and had massive political and cultural effects during the Cold War. 
noLabel	If drugs like Prozac and Viagra can be taken without apology by everyday people who want to enhance their performance in a competitive world, why shouldn't athletes, prized as models of human capacity, be allowed, nay, encouraged, to try out drugs for the rest of us?	Drug testing has not been fair -- few marquee names have ever been brought down -- nor as effective a deterrent as both sides would have fans believe.
noLabel	The leak resulted in the Iraq Body Count project adding 15,000 civilian deaths to their count, bringing their total to over 150,000, with roughly 80% of those civilians .	It is the biggest leak in the military history of the United States, surpassing the Afghan War documents leak of 25 July 2010 .
noLabel	Evidence shows that the life-skills acquired in social development programmes can reduce involvement in violence, improve social skills, boost educational achievement and improve job prospects.	Life skills refer to social, emotional, and behavioural competencies which help children and adolescents effectively deal with the challenges of everyday life.
noLabel	In 1997, Rhee founded and began serving as the CEO of The New Teacher Project, a non-profit which within ten years of its founding, had trained and supplied urban school districts with 23,000 mid-career professionals wanting to become classroom teachers .	The Project has mainly served New York, Chicago, Miami and Philadelphia, Beginning in 2000, the Project began redesigning the D.C. school's recruitment and hiring processes .
noLabel	Geothermal power is cost effective, reliable, sustainable, and environmentally friendly, but has historically been limited to areas near tectonic plate boundaries.	Recent technological advances have dramatically expanded the range and size of viable resources, especially for applications such as home heating, opening a potential for widespread exploitation.
noLabel	GitHub even has a feature to streamline quick editing of single files, which (since 2011) automatically forks a copy of the repository if the user does not have permissions to edit it directly, and then issues a pull request afterwards if the user wishes.	This allows "safe" changes such as string and documentation corrections to be made and then pull requests to be issued entirely from within the web browser, and makes the experience somewhat like using a wiki.
noLabel	However, there are three important factors that set aside monarchies such as the United Kingdom from systems where greater power might otherwise rest with Parliament.	These are the issue of Royal Prerogative where the reigning monarch may continue to exercise power under certain very limited circumstances, Sovereign Immunity where they are considered to have done no wrong under the law, and may avoid both taxation and planning permission for example, and considerable ceremonial power where the executive, judiciary, police and armed forces owe allegiance to the Crown. 
noLabel	This means either that there must be reliable duplicate sources of electricity beyond the normal system reserve, or some means of electricity storage."	"Relatively few places have scope for pumped storage dams close to where the power is needed, and overall efficiency is less than 80%.
noLabel	Criminals violate the law because they belong to a unique subculture - the counter-culture - their values and norms conflicting with those of the working-, middle- or upper-classes upon which criminal laws are based.	This subculture shares an alternative lifestyle, language and culture, and is generally typified by being tough, taking care of their own affairs and rejecting government authority.
noLabel	Also, the free Soviet university education system required Department of Chemistry students of both sexes to complete an ROTC course in NBC defense, and such female reservist officers could be conscripted in times of war.	The United States came close to drafting women into the Nurse Corps in preparation for a planned invasion of Japan . 
noLabel	While certain life skills programs focus on teaching the prevention of certain behaviors the Search Institute has found those programs can be relatively ineffective.	Based upon their research The Family and Youth Services Bureau, a division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services advocates the theory of Positive Youth Development as a replacement for the less effective prevention programs.
noLabel	Two members of Dáil Éireann (the lower house of the Irish parliament), Chris Andrews and Aengus Ó Snodaigh were refused access to the flotilla by the Cypriot authorities and had to abandon plans to travel with aid workers .	On 1 June, Cowen told Dáil Éireann that there would be "serious consequences" if Irish citizens had come to any harm at the hands of Israel .
noLabel	For example, at the global level, the International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO) – an intergovernmental body that includes 60 countries of producers and consumers of wood in tropical forests and the European Union, is a key actor in the push to approve REDD+.	The ITTO has launched a thematic program on REDD and environmental services with an initial funding of US$3.5 million from Norway.
noLabel	This is tied to the generous interpretation of rights, as the purpose of the Charter provisions is assumed to be to increase rights and freedoms of people in a variety of circumstances, at the expense of the government powers .	Constitutional scholar Peter Hogg has approved of the generous approach in some cases, although for others he argues the purpose of the provisions was not to achieve a set of rights as broad as courts have imagined .
noLabel	Bilateral talks on revising the 1951 security pact began in 1959, and the new Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security was signed in Washington on January 19, 1960.	When the pact was submitted to the Diet for ratification on February 5, it became the subject of bitter debate over the Japan-United States relationship and the occasion for violence in an all-out effort by the leftist opposition to prevent its passage.
noLabel	Some feminists contend that as with other women saints such as Joan of Arc the image of Mary is a construct of the patriarchal mind.	They argue that Marian dogmas and doctrines and the typical forms of Marian devotion reinforce patriarchy by offering women temporary comfort from the ongoing opperession inflicted on them by male dominated churches and societies .
noLabel	A number other concerns have been expressed about the security of nuclear weapons in other, newer nuclear powers with relatively less stable governments, such as Pakistan, but in each case, the fears have been addressed to some extent by statements and evidence provided by those nations, as well as cooperative programs between nations.	Worry remains, however, in many circles that a relative decrease in security of nuclear weapons has emerged in recent years, and that terrorists or others may attempt to exert control over (or use) nuclear weapons, militarily applicable technology, or nuclear materials and fuel. 
noLabel	Most countries held that a new three-months withdrawal notice was required, and some questioned whether North Korea's notification met the "extraordinary events" and "supreme interests" requirements of the Treaty.	The Joint Statement of September 19, 2005 at the end of the Fourth Round of the Six-Party Talks called for North Korea to "return" to the NPT, implicitly acknowledging that it had withdrawn.
noLabel	This though was only one of the measures taken to regain control of the border together with more casework and enforcement staff, restricted public benefits, improved casework processes and streamlined appeals procedures.	The ALO network underlined the benefits of driving down the routes which organised criminal facilitators could exploit and more thought and effort went into refining these ideas and tightening the control. 
noLabel	Websites that unethically use online advertising for revenue frequently do not monitor what advertisements on their website link to, allowing advertisements to lead to sites with malicious software or adult material.	The ethical propriety of advertisers that use web searches for competitors' brands to trigger their own ads has been questioned . 
noLabel	A study by the Overseas Development Institute evaluates the benefits of the Malawi Government Agricultural Inputs Subsidy Programme, which was implemented in 2006/2007 to promote access to and use of fertilizers in both maize and tobacco production to increase agricultural productivity and food security.	The subsidy was implemented by means of a coupon system which could be redeemed by the recipients for fertilizer types at approximately one-third of the normal cash price .
noLabel	According to the Catholic Church, human reason, even without knowledge of a revealed divine law, inclines people to seek the good and avoid sin.	In this view, natural law provides a foundation on which people may build moral rules to guide their choices and regulate society, but does not provide as strong a basis for moral behavior as a morality that is based in religion .
noLabel	Intolerance of dissident forms of Protestantism also continued, as evidenced by the exodus of the Pilgrims who sought refuge, first in the Netherlands, and ultimately in America, founding the Plymouth Colony in Massachusetts in 1620.	William Penn, the founder of Philadelphia, was involved in a case which had a profound effect upon future American law and those of England.
noLabel	" Dr. William Shulman, director of the Holocaust Research Center, described the denial "as if these people [in the Holocaust] were killed twice", a sentiment echoed by literary theorist Jean Baudrillard, who argued that "Forgetting the extermination is part of the extermination itself.	" In 2006, UN Secretary General Kofi Annan said: "Remembering is a necessary rebuke to those who say the Holocaust never happened or has been exaggerated.
noLabel	The commission also stated that Israel is complying with its humanitarian obligations as the blockading party, including the prohibition against starving the civilian population or preventing the supply of objects essential for the survival of the civilian population and medical supplies, and the requirement that the damage to the civilian population is not excessive in relation to the real and direct military advantage anticipated from the blockade.	The imposition and enforcement of the naval blockade on the Gaza Strip was not found to constitute “collective punishment” of the population of the Gaza Strip . 
noLabel	Over the past four years, federations for sports like cycling, speed skating, biathlon and cross-country skiing have begun using programs to measure athletes' red blood cells.	In cycling, for instance, those athletes who have a hematocrit, or percentage of red blood cells in whole blood, above 50 percent, are suspended for two weeks.
noLabel	Finally in July 2008, the government established the Population, Immigration and Border Crossings Authority, responsible for processing asylum requests and determining refugee-status.	In July 2009, Israeli authorities officially took over this responsibility from UNHCR, and since then asylum policies have become clearer . 
noLabel	Team Gym or Gymnastics for All has it origins in earliest times.These days, although teams can compete the sport itself was developed to enhance fitness and health in the participants and is accessible to anyone of any age.	In 1984 Gymnastics for All was officially recognized first as a Sport Program by the FIG (International Gymnastic Federation), and subsequently by national gymnastic federations world wide with participants that now number 30 million . 
noLabel	Between March 16–17, 1988, the Iraqi government under Saddam Hussein carried out a poison gas attack in the Kurdish town of Halabja in Iraqi Kurdistan.	Between 3,200 and 5,000 civilians died instantly, and between 7,000 and 10,000 civilians were injured, and thousands more would die in the following years from complications, diseases, and birth defects caused by the attack.
noLabel	During a temporary physical infirmity or an absence from the kingdom, the sovereign may temporarily delegate some of his or her functions to Counsellors of State, the monarch's spouse and the first four adults in the line of succession.	The present Counsellors of State are: The Duke of Edinburgh, The Prince of Wales, The Duke of Cambridge, Prince Harry of Wales and The Duke of York .
noLabel	St. Benedict is considered the father of Western Monasticism and his sister, Saint Scholastica is the patron saint of nuns .	During the Middle Ages, monastic settlements were established throughout western Europe and convents and abbeys for women could become powerful institutions.
noLabel	The outsourcing of asylum is a type of migration policies pursued by the countries of the European Union consisting of relocating the reception and accommodation of asylum seekers and the processing of their asylumapplications, in places near the borders of the EU or in countries outside the EU, from which asylum seekers originate or through which they pass.	After an attempted relocation of asylum procedures in centers on the boundaries of the EU, in 2003 these policies have resulted in a proliferation of exiled camps in and around the European Union, a pressure on neighboring countries to develop systems that consider applications for asylum in their territories, and a radicalization of antimigratory policies in neighboring countries and within the border of the European Union .
noLabel	Countries possessing ENR capabilities, it is feared, have what is in effect the option of using this capability to produce fissile material for weapons use on demand, thus giving them what has been termed a "virtual" nuclear weapons program.	The degree to which NPT members have a "right" to ENR technology notwithstanding its potentially grave proliferation implications, therefore, is at the cutting edge of policy and legal debates surrounding the meaning of Article IV and its relation to Articles I, II, and III of the Treaty. 
noLabel	The term "healthy" is also widely used in the context of many types of non-living organizations and their impacts for the benefit of humans, such as in the sense of healthy communities, healthy cities or healthy environments.	In addition to health care interventions and a person's surroundings, a number of other factors are known to influence the health status of individuals, including their background, lifestyle, and economic and social conditions; these are referred to as "determinants of health".
noLabel	In response, game designer Sandy Petersen noted that not all console RPGs are action-based, pointing to Final Fantasy and Lufia, and that some computer RPGs such as Ultima VIII have also begun following the console trend of adopting arcade action elements .	Another criticism at the time, dating back to the Phantasy Star games in the late 1980s, was the frequent use of defined player characters, in contrast to the Wizardry and Gold Box games where the player's avatars (such as knights, clerics, or thieves) were blank slates . 
noLabel	Capitalist class processes, to these thinkers, are simply those in which surplus labor takes the form of surplus value, usable as capital; other tendencies for utilization of labor nonetheless exist simultaneously in existing societies where capitalist processes are predominant.	However, other late Marxian thinkers argue that a social formation as a whole may be classed as capitalist if capitalism is the mode by which a surplus is extracted, even if this surplus is not produced by capitalist activity, as when an absolute majority of the population is engaged in non-capitalist economic activity . 
noLabel	In Thailand's constitutional monarchy, the monarch is recognized as the Head of State, Head of the Armed Forces, Upholder of the Buddhist Religion, and Defender of the Faith.	The current King, Bhumibol Adulyadej, is the longest reigning current monarch in the world and in all of Thailand's history .
noLabel	Moreover, SS rules prohibited acts of gratuitous sadism, as Himmler wished for his men to remain "decent", and that acts of sadism were taken on the individual initiative of those who were either especially cruel or who wished to prove themselves ardent National Socialists .	Finally, he argued that those of a non-criminal bent who committed crimes did so because they wished to conform to the values of the group they had joined and were afraid of being branded "weak" by their by colleagues if they refused . 
noLabel	When energy is purchased from the electricity network, the power reaching the consumer will not necessarily be generated from green energy sources.	The local utility company, electric company, or state power pool buys their electricity from electricity producers who may be generating from fossil fuel, nuclear or renewable energy sources.
noLabel	The International Amateur Athletics Federation suspended Slupianek for 12 months, a penalty that ended two days before the European championships in Prague.	In the reverse of what the IAAF hoped, sending her home to East Germany meant she was free to train unchecked with anabolic steroids, if she wanted to, and then compete for another gold medal, which she won. 
noLabel	Many of the earlier public schools in the United States were one-room schools where a single teacher taught seven grades of boys and girls in the same classroom.	Beginning in the 1920s, one-room schools were consolidated into multiple classroom facilities with transportation increasingly provided by kid hacks and school buses.
noLabel	The Los Angeles Times reported that Mitchell acknowledged that his "tight relationship with Major League Baseball left him open to criticism" .	Mitchell responded to the concerns by stating that readers who examined the report closely "will not find any evidence of bias, of special treatment of the Red Sox" .
noLabel	"it was felt within the service that officers were likely to be questioned about the true political affiliation of Mrs. Joan Ruddock, who became chair of CND in 1983.	It was fully recognised by the service that she had no subversive affiliations and therefore should not be recorded under any of the usual subversive categories.
noLabel	In the past, this technique could only be performed reliably by trained professionals with specialized equipment, but it is now possible to buy home testing kits which allow people to do this themselves with a minimum of training.	Despite the improved simplicity of this process over the years, however, there are a number of factors which can affect the results, including hydration and body temperature, so it still needs some care when taking the test to ensure that the results are accurate. 
noLabel	He proposes a world without sovereign nation-states, territorially organized in small autonomous but not-sovereign cantonal polities, complemented by strong world organizations .	He emphasizes the difference between international institutions, led by representatives of the national governments, and world or universal institutions, with clearly defined aims served by directors selected by their personal qualifications, independently of any national bias or proportion.
noLabel	There has been discussion among legal scholars about whether or not to impose term limits on the Supreme Court of the United States.	Currently, Supreme Court Justices are appointed for life “during good behaviour.” A sentiment has developed, among certain scholars, that the Supreme Court may not be accountable in a way that is most in line with the spirit of checks and balances .
noLabel	Orwell went on to suggest that because both the UK and the Soviet Union were members of the Allied powers at the time, this self-censorship was preventing valid criticism of the Communist regime.	Orwell worked for the Ministry of Information during the war and used it as his inspiration for the Ministry of Truth in Nineteen-Eighty-Four.
noLabel	According to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, D.C., “The fate of black people from 1933 to 1945 in Nazi Germany and in German-occupied territories ranged from isolation to persecution, sterilization, medical experimentation, incarceration, brutality, and murder.	However, there was no systematic program for their elimination as there was for Jews and other groups.” Meanwhile, Afrikaaners, Berbers, Iranians and Pre-Partition Indians were classified as Aryans, so not persecuted (see main article).
noLabel	The draft office then sent this appendix to the Bundesamt für den Zivildienst (Federal Office for Civilian Service) for approval or (rare) denial since 1983; previously, the objector had to defend his seriosity in front of a committee at the Draft Office itself.	These must have been directed against war and military service in general, without regard to the circumstances, and, if they had been finally rejected (which was then not at all so rare), he must challenge the decision in administrative court. 
noLabel	Frequent and regular physical exercise boosts the immune system, and helps prevent the "diseases of affluence" such as heart disease, cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes and obesity .	It also improves mental health, helps prevent depression, helps to promote or maintain positive self esteem, and can even augment an individual's sex appeal or body image, which is also found to be linked with higher levels of self esteem .
noLabel	She gave birth on 28 February 1989, and was notified on 20 March that she had been dismissed from her job for missing sixteen days of work.	This was the period when she was giving birth and recuperating, as well as recovering from her ordeal in the psychiatric institute.
noLabel	However, while they said that there was no sign that Syria had built an operation to convert the spent fuel from the plant into weapons-grade plutonium, they had told President Bush last year that they could think of no other explanation for the reactor.	" BBC Diplomatic Correspondent Jonathan Marcus commented on the release of the CIA video that "Briefings about alleged weapons of mass destruction programmes have a lot to live down in the wake of the US experience in Iraq" .
noLabel	The empathic emotions component of ethnocultural empathy is attention to the feeling of a person or persons from another ethnocultural group to the degree that one is able to feel the other’s emotional condition from the point of view of that person’s racial or ethnic culture.	In addition, it refers to a person’s emotional response to the emotional display of a person or persons from another ethnocultural group. 
noLabel	It has been suggested that the protocol is therefore in a kind of catch-22, since the UK will decline to either sign or ratify the protocol until the European Court of Human Rights has addressed the meaning of the provision, while the court is hindered in doing so by the lack of applications to the court concerning the protocol caused by the decisions of Europe's most populous states — including the UK — not to ratify the protocol.	The UK Government, nevertheless, "agrees in principle that the ECHR should contain a provision against discrimination that is free-standing and not parasitic on the other Convention rights" .
noLabel	Rep. Rangel argued that the bill was necessary since in the case of a mandatory draft members of the U.S. Congress would be much less likely to authorize an unnecessary war if they knew that their own children and family members might be sent to fight it.	He was quoted as saying:"There’s no question in my mind that this president and this administration would never have invaded Iraq, especially on the flimsy evidence that was presented to the Congress if indeed we had a draft and members of Congress and the administration thought that their kids from their communities would be placed in harm’s way" Rangel also argued that bringing back the draft would remedy the social disparity reflected by the fact the currently the burden of military service falls disproportionately on the poor and the minorities .
noLabel	Executive Order 10925, signed by President John F. Kennedy on March 6, 1961, required government contractors to "take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, creed, color, or national origin.	" It established the President's Committee on Equal Employment Opportunity, which later became the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) under the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
noLabel	Thus, students in working and lower class schools do not receive the same quality of education and access to resources as do students from affluent families.	The reality of the situation is that distribution of resources for schools is based on the socioeconomic status of the parents of the students.
noLabel	"Sub-strategic use" includes the use of either "low-yield" tactical nuclear weapons, or of "scalable-yield" ("dialable-yield") strategic nuclear weapons in a very limited role, as compared to battlefield exchanges of larger-yield strategic nuclear weapons.	This was described by the UK Parliamentary Defence Select Committee as "the launch of one or a limited number of missiles against an adversary as a means of conveying a political message, warning or demonstration of resolve".
noLabel	Critics of the 'security against tyranny' argument argue also that replacing elected officials by voting is sufficient to keep the government in check, although there are numerous examples in history of elected officials assuming absolute power, with little regard to laws.	Gun right advocates put forward the Battle of Athens on August 2, 1946 as an example of citizens in desperate circumstances using firearms where all other democratic options have failed . 
noLabel	President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono of Indonesia has banned Wilders from entering the country, and has prohibited the film from being broadcast .	About 50 members of a hardline Muslim group demonstrated at the Dutch embassy in the Indonesian capital, Jakarta, throwing eggs and water bottles to the embassy compound, before being dispersed by riot police with water cannons .
noLabel	Under the broken windows theory, an ordered and clean environment &ndash; one which is maintained &ndash; sends the signal that the area is monitored and that criminal behavior will not be tolerated.	Conversely, a disordered environment &ndash; one which is not maintained (broken windows, graffiti, excessive litter) &ndash; sends the signal that the area is not monitored and that one can engage in criminal behavior with little risk of detection.
noLabel	Providing a medical prescription for pharmaceutical heroin (diamorphine) to heroin addicts has been seen in some countries as a way of solving the 'heroin problem' with potential benefits to the individual addict and to society.	The treatment greatly improves the social and health situation of patients, while reducing costs incurred by delinquency, criminal trials, incarceration and health interventions . 
noLabel	The final regulations (termed the "Final Rule") were finalized and released November 12, 2008, and came into effect on January 19, 2009, the day before the Obama administration took office .	Compliance was not required until December 1, 2009 in order to give the "non-exempt participants" an opportunity to implement the necessary safeguards and procedures.
noLabel	On June 7, 1981, a flight of Israeli Air Force F-16A fighter aircraft, with an escort of F-15As, bombed and heavily damaged the Osirak reactor .	Israel claimed it acted in self-defense, and that the reactor had "less than a month to go" before "it might have become critical.
noLabel	In October 2009, a suit was filed by the Natural Resources Defense Council that challenged the pipeline on the grounds that its permit was based on a deficient environmental impact statement.	The suit was thrown out by a federal judge on procedural grounds, ruling that the NRDC lacked the authority to bring it .
noLabel	In this debate, proposition should seek to allow the formation of unions of workers, but prevent their ability to collectively bargain with the state or employers, through changes to the structure of employment law or through a simple refusal to engage in negotiations with union organisations.	This debate is very similar to a debate on the abolition of unions generally, as collective bargaining strategies are key to the effectiveness of almost all unions.
noLabel	One problem of the studies on aid is that there is a lack of differentiation between the different types of aid.	Some type of aids such as short-term aid do not have an impact on economic growth while other aids used for infrastructure and investments will result in a positive economic growth. 
noLabel	Mortal Kombat focuses on the journey of the monk Liu Kang to save Earth from the evil sorcerer Shang Tsung, ending with their confrontation on the tournament known as Mortal Kombat.	The game spawned numerous sequels, as well as a successful 1995 motion picture adaptation, and is one of the most popular fighting games to date.
noLabel	Historians such as Richard Westfall have argued that the overt traditionalism of universities inhibited attempts to re-conceptualize nature and knowledge and caused an indelible tension between universities and scientists .	This resistance to changes in science may have been a significant factor in driving many scientists away from the university and toward private benefactors, usually in princely courts, and associations with newly forming scientific societies . 
noLabel	Another report based on the Mexican census noted that 67,050 homicides had taken place in Mexico from 2007 to 2010 alone.	Also, there has been consistent resistance from the Mexican government to release new and accurate public records regarding the issue of homicides . 
noLabel	The presidents of the national parliaments and assemblies of Egypt, Lebanon, Syria, Tunisia, Cyprus, Serbia, Czech Republic and Turkey expressed their support to the initiative, while the president of the Palestinian national authority was positive.	Additionally, Israel's Knesset president expressed her appreciation for the proposal, while calling for the manners that will lead to a political solution via Parliamentary diplomacy .
noLabel	In 2001, the U.S. Census Bureau declared 53% of Asian Americans owned their own home which is a convincing piece of evidence to show their success.	This is a counter point to the idea that subordinate social groups cannot achieve upward mobility without overcoming structural obstacles . 
noLabel	Subsidy may also be used to refer to government actions which limit competition or raise the prices at which producers could sell their products, for example, by means of tariff protection.	Although economics generally holds that subsidies may distort the market and produce inefficiencies, there are a number of recognized cases where subsidies may be the most efficient solution. 
noLabel	According to the Stratfor Consultancy headquartered in Texas, "to understand Mexicoʼs gun problem it is necessary to recognize that the same economic law of supply and demand that fuels drug smuggling into the United States also fuels gun smuggling into Mexico.	Black-market guns in Mexico can fetch up to 300 percent of their normal purchase price — a profit margin rivaling the narcotics the cartels sell.
noLabel	" Street was arrested and charged with a New York state law making it a crime "publicly [to] mutilate, deface, defile, or defy, trample upon, or cast contempt upon either by words or act [any flag of the United States].	" Street appealed his conviction to the Supreme Court, arguing the law was "overbroad, both on its face and as applied," that the language was "vague and imprecise" and did not "clearly define the conduct which it forbids", and that it unconstitutionally punished the destruction of an American flag, an act which Street contended "constitute[d] expression protected by the Fourteenth Amendment.
noLabel	In 2009, the agricultural output of China was the largest in the world, followed by the European Union, India and the United States, according to the International Monetary Fund (see below).	Economists measure the total factor productivity of agriculture and by this measure agriculture in the United States is roughly 2.6 times more productive than it was in 1948 . 
noLabel	He uses the example of Laplace — "It works well enough without that [God] hypothesis" — to demonstrate that we do not need God to explain things; he claims that religion becomes obsolete as an explanation when it becomes optional or one among many different beliefs.	He concludes by averring that the leap of faith is not just one leap; it is a leap repeatedly made, and a leap that becomes more difficult to take the more it is taken: which is why so many religionists now feel the need to move beyond mere faith and cite evidence for their beliefs.
noLabel	Executive Order 11246, signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson on September 24, 1965, established requirements for non-discriminatory practices in hiring and employment on the part of U.S. government contractors.	It "prohibits federal contractors and federally assisted construction contractors and subcontractors, who do over $10,000 in Government business in one year from discriminating in employment decisions on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.
noLabel	Awarding patents generally makes the details of new technology publicly available, for exploitation by anyone after the patent expires, or for further improvement by other inventors.	Furthermore, when a patent's term has expired, the public record ensures that the patentee's idea is not lost to humanity .
noLabel	According to Article 25 of the Penal Code, “lower imprisonment” is defined as a prison term between 61 days and five years.	According to Article 30, the penalty of “lower imprisonment” in its medium or minimum degrees carries with it also the suspension of the exercise of a public position during the prison term . 
noLabel	An opinion poll held in November 2008 that separated the questions found support for a republic at 50% with 28% opposed.	Asked how the president should be chosen if there were to be a republic, 80 percent said elected by the people, against 12 percent who favoured appointment by parliament .
noLabel	The legislature, called the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw, is bicameral and made up of two houses: The 224-seat upper house Amyotha Hluttaw (House of Nationalities) and the 440-seat lower house Pyithu Hluttaw (House of Representatives).	The upper house consists of 224 member of which 168 are directly elected and 56 are appointed by the Burmese Armed Forces while the lower house consists of 440 members of which 330 are directly elected and 110 are appointed by the armed forces.
noLabel	Lois B. Defleur, a social historian who studied drug arrests during this period in Chicago, stated that, “police administrators indicated they were making the kind of arrests the public wanted.” Additionally, some of Nixon’s newly create drug enforcement agencies would resort to illegal practices to make arrests as they tried to meet public demand for arrest numbers.	From 1972 to 1973, the Office of Drug Abuse and Law Enforcement performed 6,000 drug arrests in 18 months, the majority of the arrested black . 
noLabel	Obama and other Senators introduced a bill in 2007 to promote the development of commercially viable plug-in hybrids and other electric-drive vehicles in order to shift away from petroleum fuels and "toward much cleaner – and cheaper – electricity for transportation" .	In his plan, related with transportation, he proposes increase fuel economy standards 4 percent per each year, specific focus on R&#38;D in advanced battery technology and a $7,000 tax credit for the purchase of advanced technology vehicles as well as conversion tax credits and $4 billion retooling tax credits and loan guarantees for domestic auto plants and parts manufacturers; the entire White House fleet would be converted to plug-ins and half of cars purchased by the federal government will be plug-in (hybrids or all-electric) vehicles by 2012 .
noLabel	According to the BBC, Hamas views the attacks as legitimate because it regards the whole of historic Palestine (roughly coterminous with Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip and Jordan) as Islamic land, and thus sees the state of Israel as an occupier.	[Hamas] regards the whole of historic Palestine as Islamic land and therefore views the state of Israel as an occupier, though it has offered a 10-year "truce" if Israel withdraws to the lines held before the war of 1967.
noLabel	Social policy economists, such as Culyer and Barr, have been critical of the role that council housing plays in attempts to help the poor.	One large criticism is that it hurts labour mobility with its system of allocating housing to those in the local area.
noLabel	Defeated in Congress and overridden by the Supreme Court, this populist uprising was brought to a halt for the purpose of reforming the federal government.	The term limits intended simultaneously to reform legislatures (as distinguished from the congressional delegations) remain in force, however, in fifteen states  . 
noLabel	He argues that many of the philosophical views, such as affinity for democracy against monarchy, originated among Protestants in the early 16th century to justify their desire to break away from the pope and the Catholic Church.	Though many of these philosophical ideals were picked up by Catholics, Russell argues, by the 18th century the Enlightenment was the principal manifestation of the schism that began with Martin Luther . 
noLabel	In all 14 million ethnic Germans were expelled and it has been asserted that as many as two million might have perished in the process .	Due to horrifying revelations of Nazi genocidal practices at the same period, and to the collaboration of many ethnic Germans with Nazi occupation in various countries, their expulsion was mostly tolerated by international public opinion at the time.
noLabel	With the US pullout in Vietnam, the normalization of US relations with China, and the Sino-Soviet Split, the policy of Containment was abandoned and a new policy of détente was established, whereby peaceful coexistence was sought between the United States and the Soviet Union.	Although all factors listed above contributed to this shift, the most important factor was probably the rough parity achieved in stockpiling nuclear weapons with the clear capability of Mutual Assured Destruction (MAD).
noLabel	Girls who grew up in homes without their father are significantly more likely to have premarital sex than girls who are raised by both parents .	In addition, teens who lived with stepparents or in a single-parent household had notably higher levels of risky sex behavior than did kids who lived in stable and biological-parent families .
noLabel	Commonwealth immigration, made up largely of economic migrants, rose from 3,000 per year in 1953 to 46,800 in 1956 and 136,400 in 1961 .	The heavy numbers of migrants resulted in the establishment of a Cabinet committee in June 1950 to find "ways which might be adopted to check the immigration into this country of coloured people from British colonial territories" . 
noLabel	Writing in the American Psychological Association journal Review of General Psychology's special issue on video games, Barnett and Coulson expressed concern that much of the debate on the issue of addiction may be a knee jerk response stimulated by poor understanding of games and game players.	Such issues may lead both society and scholars to exaggerate the prevalence and nature of problematic gaming, and overfocus on games specifically while ignoring underlying mental health issues.
noLabel	To these novel factors, one must add the now standard failure of regulators and supervisors in spotting and correcting the emerging weaknesses .	Bank oversight had been largely carried out by states attourney generals' offices until 2004 when John D. Hawke, Jr., Comptroller of the Currency's decision to bar states from monitoring and regulating banks ended this practice based upon the 1863 National Bank Act . 
noLabel	By 1923, courts had vindicated a "common-knowledge" standard, concluding that "scientific evidence", including the notion of a "Caucasian race" including Arabs and many South Asians, was incoherent.	Legal scholar John Tehranian argues that in reality this was a "performance-based" standard, relating to religious practices, education, intermarriage and a community's role in the United States .
noLabel	The Accra Agenda for Action aims to incorporate the contributions of all development players—middle-income countries, global funds, the private sector, civil society organisations—into more inclusive partnerships.	The aim is for all the providers of aid to use the same principles and procedures, so that all their efforts are coherent and have greater impact on reducing poverty. 
noLabel	This method of construction minimizes the amount of concrete necessary for construction but transmits large loads to the foundation and abutments.	The appearance is similar to a single-arch dam but with a distinct vertical curvature to it as well lending it the vague appearance of a concave lens as viewed from downstream. 
noLabel	The important role of nutrition in building muscle and losing fat means bodybuilders may consume a wide variety of dietary supplements .	Various products are used in an attempt to augment muscle size, increase the rate of fat loss, improve joint health, increase natural testosterone production, enhance training performance and prevent potential nutrient deficiencies.
noLabel	Because of a BCS rule allowing only two teams from each conference to play in BCS bowl games, highly-ranked Wisconsin and Auburn were not eligible for selection to a BCS game.	Wisconsin was excluded because Ohio State and Michigan represented the Big Ten, and Auburn was excluded because LSU and Florida represented the SEC, even though Auburn defeated LSU 7&ndash;3 and Florida 27&ndash;17 during the season.
noLabel	Then they voted a measure far more radical, declaring themselves the National Assembly, an assembly not of the Estates but of "the People."	They invited the other orders to join them, but made it clear they intended to conduct the nation's affairs with or without them . 
noLabel	The Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ) uses the tools of journalism to help journalists by tracking press freedom issues through independent research, fact-finding missions, and firsthand contacts in the field, including local working journalists in countries around the world.	CPJ shares information on breaking cases with other press freedom organizations worldwide through the International Freedom of Expression Exchange, a global e-mail network.
noLabel	In 1926 Noguchi founded the Korean Hydro Electric Company at Hungnam in north-eastern Korea: this became the site of an industrial complex producing ammonia for fertilizer production.	However, despite the availability of a heavy-water production facility whose output could potentially have rivalled that of Norsk Hydro at Vemork in Norway, it appears that the Japanese did not carry out neutron-multiplication studies using heavy water as a moderator at Kyoto .
noLabel	Deforestation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo has been caused partly by unregulated logging and mining, but mostly by the demands made by the subsistence activities of a poor population.	In the east of the country, for example, more than 3 million people live less than a day's walk from Virunga National Park.
noLabel	Subsequently 25 states have examined similar legislation related to fetal pain and/or fetal anesthesia, and in 2010 Nebraska banned abortions after 20 weeks on the basis of fetal pain .	Eight states, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Alaska, South Dakota, and Texas have passed laws which introduced information on fetal pain in their state-issued abortion-counseling literature, which one opponent of these laws, the Guttmacher Institute founded by Planned Parenthood, has called "generally irrelevant" and not in line "with the current medical literature" .
noLabel	The emergence of internal federal agencies that are often unregulated and unaccountable also contributes to the occurrence of human rights violations.	It has been found that the Federal Investigations Agency (Agencia Federal de Investigación-AFI) of Mexico had been involved with numerous human rights violation cases involving torture and corruption.
noLabel	Andrew Brennan was an advocate of ecologic humanism (eco-humanism), the argument that all ontological entities, animate and in-animate, can be given ethical worth purely on the basis that they exist.	The work of Arne Næss and his collaborator Sessions also falls under the libertarian extension, although they preferred the term "deep ecology".
noLabel	She said the lack of policy in the aftermath of the incident would jeopardize Israel's legitimacy and backing from the international community, which she says for years had insisted on not recognizing Hamas until it recognizes Israel and accepts past agreements, and had accepted the closure of Gaza while "it was clear that Israel wanted an agreement with pragmatic forces, with the legitimate Palestinian government."	She also said that IDF soldiers acted appropriately, and supports setting up an internal investigation committee with the United States . 
noLabel	Japan had requested that the U.S. hand over suspects before indictment in three previous cases to which the U.S. had complied.	On December 3, 2002, Japan's national government asked that Brown be transferred to Japanese police officials for confinement, but in this case the United States declined to do until an indictment was handed down.
noLabel	His message, "things must change in Haiti", referring to the disparity between the wealthy and the poor, was met with thunderous applause .	In 2000, he was the first modern pope to visit Egypt, where he met with the Coptic pope, Pope Shenouda&nbsp;III and the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Alexandria .
noLabel	Since its inception, SAP-FL has focused on raising global awareness of forced labour in its different forms, and mobilising action against its manifestation.	Several thematic and country-specific studies and surveys have since been undertaken, on such diverse aspects of forced labour as bonded labour, human trafficking, forced domestic work, rural servitude, and forced prison labour. 
noLabel	In the Philippines, former President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo was arrested in 2011 following the filing of criminal charges against her for electoral sabotage, in connection with the Philippine general election, 2007.	She was accused of conspiring with election officials to ensure the victory of her party's senatorial slate in the province of Maguindanao, through the tampering of election returns .
noLabel	The amount of nicotine absorbed by the body from smoking depends on many factors, including the type of tobacco, whether the smoke is inhaled, and whether a filter is used.	Despite the design of various cigarettes advertised and even tested on machines to deliver less of the toxic tar, studies show that when smoked by humans instead of machines, they deliver the same net amount of smoke.
noLabel	In a landmark legal case, some human rights groups have sued the Unocal corporation, previously known as Union Oil of California and now part of the Chevron Corporation.	They charge that since the early 1990s, Unocal has joined hands with dictators in Burma to turn thousands of citizens there into virtual slaves under brutality.
noLabel	John Leonard's contention that Ye's performance was "unbelievable" is based on his analysis of her split timings and her performance curve.	He was keen to absolve other Chinese athletes from suspicion and said other athletes who had delivered what appeared to be extraordinary performances ΓÇô such as Michael Phelps and China's Sun Yang (or even Usain Bolt) ΓÇô were able to demonstrate improved performances over an extended period.
noLabel	However, new data originating from the GRACE experiments and isotopic testing done by the IAEA show that the Nubian aquifer--which is under the largest, driest part of the earth's surface, has enough water in it to provide for "at least several centuries".	In addition to this, new and highly detailed maps of the earth’s underground reservoirs will be soon created from these technologies that will further allow proper budgeting of cheap water .
noLabel	The general higher education and training that takes place in a university, college, or Institute of Technology usually includes significant theoretical and abstract elements, as well as applied aspects (although limited offerings of internships or SURF programs attempt to provide practical applications).	In contrast, the vocational higher education and training that takes place at vocational universities and schools usually concentrates on practical applications, with very little theory. 
noLabel	The UK-designed warheads are thought to be selectable between 0.3, 5-10 and 100 kt (1.3, 21–42 and 420&nbsp;TJ); the yields obtained using either the unboosted primary, the boosted primary, or the entire "physics package"; although it must be stressed that these yields and similar data are entirely speculative.	The true position is unlikely to be known with certainty for many years; as was the case with the misplaced speculation about the earlier Chevaline programme; only now becoming publicly known.
noLabel	A study of an outbreak of A(H1N1) influenza in an Israeli military unit of 336 healthy young men to determine the relation of cigarette smoking to the incidence of clinically apparent influenza, revealed that, of 168 smokers, 68.5 percent had influenza, as compared with 47.2 percent of nonsmokers.	Influenza was also more severe in the smokers; 50.6 percent of the smokers lost work days or required bed rest, or both, as compared with 30.1 percent of the nonsmokers . 
noLabel	In 1950 the King's Private Secretary writing pseudonymously to the Times newspaper asserted a constitutional convention: according to the Lascelles Principles, if a minority government asked to dissolve Parliament to call an early election to strengthen its position, the monarch could refuse, and would do so under three conditions.	When Prime Minister Wilson requested a dissolution late in 1974, the Queen granted his request as Heath had already failed to form a coalition.
noLabel	There was a mistrust of phone calls warning messages to people that they have "just minutes to evacuate before they bomb the house."	According to a human rights lawyer at the Palestinian Center for Human Rights (PCHR), despite the hundreds of phone calls to families warning their house is about to be blown up, only 37 were destroyed, presumably as of the January 3 date .
noLabel	Doudou Diène (Special Rapporteur of the UN Commission on Human Rights) concluded after an investigation and nine-day tour of Japan that racial discrimination and xenophobia in Japan primarily affects three groups: national minorities, descendants of former Japanese colonies and foreigners from other Asian countries .	In spite of the widespread belief that Japan is ethnically homogeneous, it is probably more accurate to describe it as a multiethnic society . 
noLabel	After all, the "Grand Old Party" was once the party of the Radical Republicans, who had ushered in the civil rights amendments abolishing slavery, granting citizenship to blacks and allowing for black suffrage.	In the post-civil war reconstruction era, the Republicans boasted some 2,000 black elected officials nationwide.In the late 1960s, however, the Republicans began employing a "southern strategy" to capitalize on white resentment of civil rights.
noLabel	Working-class people thus face a disincentive for moving across district lines, when they would be farther down the waiting list for council housing in the new districts.	When Britain witnessed mass immigration after the Second World War, new immigrants did not initially qualify for council houses and this led to racial segregation in housing.
noLabel	WHO promotes the development of capacities in member states to use and produce research that addresses their national needs, including through the Evidence-Informed Policy Network (EVIPNet) .	The Pan American Health Organization (PAHO/AMRO) became the first region to develop and pass a policy on research for health approved in September 2009 . 
noLabel	Common civil liberties include the rights of people, freedom of religion, and freedom of speech, and additionally, the right to due process, to a trial and to privacy.	Civil libertarianism is a strain of political thought that supports civil liberties, or which emphasizes the supremacy of individual rights and personal freedoms over and against any kind of authority (such as a state, a corporation, social norms imposed through peer pressure, etc) .
noLabel	and there are new methods to boost biofuel production, although using bioelectricity, by burning the biomass to produce electricity for an electric car, increases the distance that a car can go from a hectare (about 2.5 acres) of crops by 81%, from 30,000&nbsp;km to 54,000&nbsp;km per year .	However, covering that same hectare with photovoltaics (in relatively sunless Germany or England) allows the electric car to go 3,250,000&nbsp;km/year, over 100 times as far as from biofuel .
noLabel	The University of Miami has appeared in every BCS bowl except for the standalone National Championship Game, although Miami did appear in the national championship when that designation was assigned to the original four bowls in rotation.	Miami played in the 2001 Sugar Bowl, 2002 Rose Bowl (national championship), 2003 Fiesta Bowl (national championship), and 2004 Orange Bowl.
noLabel	This position is not required by the Samoan constitution, which is why Samoa is officially classified as a republic rather than a constitutional monarchy.	The pope is monarch of Vatican City by virtue of his position as head of the Catholic Church; he is an elected rather than hereditary ruler.
noLabel	The shift from console-based or "shrink-wrap" gaming to online games has allowed massively-multiplayer online gaming today to become ubiquitous in the computer gaming realm.	Due to the openness of the Internet's architecture, users become producers of the technology, and shapers of the whole network .
noLabel	In his view, transactions in a market economy are voluntary, and the wide diversity that voluntary activity permits is a fundamental threat to repressive political leaders and greatly diminish power to coerce.	Friedman's view was also shared by Friedrich Hayek and John Maynard Keynes, both of whom believed that capitalism is vital for freedom to survive and thrive .
noLabel	In contrast, actual experience in Western cultures provides no evidence for any degree of gender imbalance from technologies which have long been available and legal - such as selective abortion or preimplantation embryo testing.	When used for family balancing indications in such countries as the United States, pre-conceptual sex selection is widely sought without any preferential selection of males.
noLabel	Games are also often played against the "Southern Hemisphere" trio of South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand, plus the geographically isolated emerging power Argentina—as well as other rugby playing countries.	England won the 2003 Rugby World Cup, the first victory in the competition by a British team (or, for that matter, any Northern Hemisphere country), and were runners-up to Australia in 1991 and South Africa in 2007.
noLabel	Physical appearance comparison processes appear to play a critical role in the link between fashion media exposure and body image dissatisfaction.	And it appears that upwards physical appearance comparisons against idealised images leads to greater dissatisfaction, but downward comparisons, for example against obese people, are associated with better body image satisfaction .
noLabel	Many of these same guns are being recovered from crime scenes in Arizona and throughout Mexico, which is artificially inflating ATF's eTrace statistics of U.S. origin guns seized in Mexico.	One specific gun, recovered at the scene, is alleged to be the weapon used to murder Customs and Border Protection Agent Brian Terry on 14 December 2010 .
noLabel	Development aid is aid given by developed countries to support development in general which can be economic development or social development in developing countries.	It is distinguished from humanitarian aid as being aimed at alleviating poverty in the long term, rather than alleviating suffering in the short term. 
noLabel	Media relations also played an important role, with the use of new media (up to and including cyber warfare) on the part of both Israel and Hamas .	Haaretz reported that Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni "instructed senior ministry officials to open an aggressive and diplomatic international public relations campaign to gain support for Israel Defense Forces operations in the Gaza Strip."
noLabel	Cannabis smoking was common in the Middle East before the arrival of tobacco, and was early on a common social activity that centered around the type of water pipe called a hookah.	Smoking, especially after the introduction of tobacco, was an essential component of Muslim society and culture and became integrated with important traditions such as weddings, funerals and was expressed in architecture, clothing, literature and poetry . 
noLabel	Protestants almost universally criticize the idea that the Holy Communion as celebrated in Catholic churches has the nature of a sacrifice; that is, Christ becomes wholly and really present under the forms of bread and wine, and He is offered to God by the Catholic priest for the remission of sins, by means of eating the Host (Christ's body) and drinking the Wine (Christ's blood).	This doctrine is strongly reflected in that part of the Pre-Vatican II Tridentine Mass called the Offertory, where the Priest offers the bread (the Host or "hostia", meaning "victim") with the following prayer: "Receive..almighty and everlasting God, this spotless Host, which I thine unworthy servant now offer unto thee.. for my countless sins, wickedness and neglect; and for all those here present, as also for all the faithful in Christ, both the quick and the dead, that it may set forward their salvation and mine, unto life everlasting.
noLabel	Under a playoff system, front-running teams could be in a position of safety at the end of the regular season and could pull or greatly reduce their use of top players in order to protect them from injuries or give them recovery time (this happens frequently in the NFL) .	This may be less likely to happen under the BCS system where a team in the running for a #1 or #2 ranking at the end of the year would likely be punished in the polls for a loss, potentially eliminating them from contention. 
noLabel	In the first week of March, the U.S. Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the McDonald v. City of Chicago case to further clarify the issue of Second Amendment rights.	While the NRA was not involved in McDonald, the NRA's narrower lawsuit against Chicago, known as NRA v. Chicago, was combined with McDonald before the Supreme Court.
noLabel	Similar incidents happened many times in the US, due to failed computer chips, misidentifications of large flights of geese, test programs, and bureaucratic failures to notify early warning military personnel of legitimate launches of test or weather missiles.	For many years, US strategic bombers were kept airborne on a daily rotating basis "around the clock", until the number and severity of accidents persuaded policymakers it was not worthwhile.
noLabel	In Peru, President Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990–2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of a sterilization program put in place by his administration .	Peru put in place a program of forced sterilizations against indigenous people (essentially the Quechuas and the Aymaras), in the name of a "public health plan", presented July 28, 1995.
noLabel	Proponents of copyright dispute that copyright erodes precepts for creators to be able to build on published expression pointing to concepts such as Scènes à faire and Idea-expression divide.	Copyright only protects the artist's expression of his/her work and not the ideas, systems, or factual information conveyed in it and thus artists are free to get ideas from copyrighted works . 
noLabel	Upon returning to the campaign trail after her debate preparation, Palin stepped up her attacks on the Democratic candidate for President, Illinois Senator Barack Obama.	At a fundraising event, Palin explained her new aggressiveness, saying, "There does come a time when you have to take the gloves off and that time is right now.
noLabel	Synthetic elements, such as einsteinium and fermium, created by neutron bombardment of uranium and plutonium during thermonuclear explosions, were discovered in the aftermath of the first thermonuclear bomb test.	In 2008 the worldwide presence of new isotopes from atmospheric testing beginning in the 1950s was developed into a reliable way of detecting art forgeries, as all paintings created after that period may contain traces of cesium-137 and strontium-90, isotopes that did not exist in nature before 1945 . 
noLabel	These all have foundations in internal education and communications systems that serve to build the nation states on strategic and tactical bases and create the conditions for success and failure of the nation state.	Increasingly the world is replacing transportation with communication and thus the ability to communicate effectively and convey messages in the information environment is critical to national security for the Western nations.
noLabel	It is clear that to diminish deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon would require enormous financial resources to compensate the loggers and given them an economic incentive to pursue other areas of activity.	The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has estimated that a total of approximately US$547.2 million (1 billion Brazilian reais) would be required from international sources to compensate the forest developers and establish a highly organized framework to fully implement forest governance and monitoring, and the foundation of new protected forest areas in the Amazon for future sustainability .
noLabel	In 2002, NAAG gave the UCSF Library a large number of document index records and images with which to create the LTDL.	Currently, the collections are added to through the use of spidering (also known as "web crawling") applications that identify and download index records and document images directly from the tobacco companies’ websites.
noLabel	According to Time magazine in 1970, "U.S. presidents [had] ordered troops into position or action without a formal congressional declaration a total of 149 times.	" In 1993, Michael Kinsley wrote that "Congress's war power has become the most flagrantly disregarded provision in the Constitution," and that the "real erosion [of Congress's war power] began after World War II.
noLabel	This figure represented approximately a 30% increase in wind power generation each year over the previous decade, or a total increase of more than 1,000% over that time.	The total installed capacity at October 2010 was 1,880&nbsp;MW (1.88&nbsp;GW), counting only projects over 100&nbsp;kW, with a further 1,043&nbsp;MW under construction .
noLabel	In 2011, the Juárez Cartel continues to weaken, however, still controls the three main points of entry into El Paso, Texas.	The Juárez Cartel is only a shadow of the organization it was a decade ago, and its weakness and inability to effectively fight against Sinaloa's advances in Juarez contributed to the lower death toll in Juarez in 2011 .
noLabel	As of 2008, students sit the National Senior Certificate examinations, which replaced the Senior Certificate and Further Education and Training Certificate.	To progress on to university, students must attain a pass in their Home Language, an Additional Language, Mathematics or Mathematical Literacy, and Life Orientation, as well as at least three electives; see further under National Senior Certificate.
noLabel	Livesey identifies the implication that the winners must be allowed to enjoy the fruits of their enterprise and risk-taking without these rewards being taken-away by the losers.	Indeed, if capitalism to continue as a form of economic production, those responsible for the creation and accumulation of wealth must be protected from the activities of criminals.
noLabel	26 other activists, including five monks from the Ngwe Kyar Yan monastery in Yangon, were given prison sentences ranging from 6 to 24 years .	U Gambira was sentenced to 68 years in prison, at least 12 years of which will be hard labor; other charges against him are still pending .
noLabel	In 2010, the Texas Board of Education adopted new Social Studies standards that could potentially impact the content of textbooks purchased in other parts of the country.	The deliberations that resulted in the new standards were partisan in nature and are said to reflect a conservative leaning in the view of United States history . 
noLabel	One difference between video games and television which nearly all media violence studies recognize is that video games are primarily interactive while television is primarily passive in nature .	Video game players identify with the character they control in the video games and there have been suggestions that the interactivity available in violent video games narrows the gap between the theory and practice of youth violence in a manner that goes beyond the effects of televised violence .
noLabel	In 2004, the United States Department of Energy (DOE) produced “.’’ The report explored the potential and feasibility for installing wind turbines off the Mid Atlantic Coast, Gulf Coast, and in the Great Lakes.	The framework also discusses in great detail the major challenges that would lie ahead such as technology development, environmental compatibility, economic financial viability, regulation and government policies, and leadership coordination . 
noLabel	Those not satisfied with the third-party grid approach to green energy via the power grid can install their own locally based renewable energy system.	Renewable energy electrical systems from solar to wind to even local hydro-power in some cases, are some of the many types of renewable energy systems available locally.
noLabel	Talent development, part of human resource development, is the process of changing an organization, its employees, its stakeholders, and groups of people within it, using planned and unplanned learning, in order to achieve and maintain a competitive advantage for the organization.	Rothwell notes that the name may well be a term in search of a meaning, like so much in management, and suggests that it be thought of as selective attention paid to the top 10% of employees, either by potential or performance . 
noLabel	In 2007 Benedict sent a letter at Easter to Catholics in China that could have wide-ranging implications for the church's relationship with China's leadership.	The letter provides long-requested guidance to Chinese bishops on how to respond to illicitly ordained bishops, as well as how to strengthen ties with the Patriotic Association and the Communist government .
noLabel	A typical proposal for an Australian republic provides for the Queen and Governor-General to be replaced by a President or an Executive Federal Council.	There is much debate on the appointment or election process that would be used and what role such an office would have.
noLabel	Elder maltreatment is a single or repeated act, or lack of appropriate action, occurring within any relationship where there is an expectation of trust which causes harm or distress to an older person.	This type of violence constitutes a violation of human rights and includes physical, sexual, psychological, emotional; financial and material abuse; abandonment; neglect; and serious loss of dignity and respect . 
noLabel	In 2009, for the first time since the enlargement, more nationals of the eight Central and Eastern European states that joined the EU in 2004 left the UK than arrived .	Research commissioned by the Regeneration and Economic Development Analysis Expert Panel suggested migrant workers leaving the UK due to the recession are likely to return in the future and cited evidence of "strong links between initial temporary migration and intended permanent migration" . 
noLabel	Many opposed James's decisions to maintain a large standing army, to appoint Roman Catholics to high political and military offices, and to imprison Church of England clerics who challenged his policies.	As a result, a group of Protestants known as the Immortal Seven invited James II's daughter Mary and her husband William of Orange to depose the king.
noLabel	Published in 1993, Myst itself was one of the first computer games to make full use of the new high-capacity CD-ROM storage format.	Despite Myst’s mainstream success, the increased popularity of action-based and real-time games led adventure games and simulation video games, both mainstays of computer games in earlier decades, to begin to fade into obscurity. 
noLabel	Born in San Mateo, California, and professionally trained as a registered nurse, Milos started campaigning against circumcision with nurses and parents in 1979.	The spark for her activism was an experience at a newborn nursery, where she had been instructed to attend a circumcision of an infant boy .
noLabel	In critical race theory, white privilege is a way of conceptualizing racial inequalities that focuses as much on the advantages that white people accrue from society as on the disadvantages that people of color experience.	White privilege may be defined as the "unearned advantages of being White in a racially stratified society", and has been characterized as an expression of institutional power that is largely unacknowledged by most White individuals .
noLabel	A large and fierce protest was held in front of the Turkish embassy, which included slogans such as "Shayetet 13, we are with you," "We are all the IDF," "Cold weapons kill."	Protesters also accused Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of "supporting terrorism" and equated him with Osama Bin-Laden and Mahmoud Ahmadinejad .
noLabel	But the drug goes largely undetected because scientists have yet to develop a reliable test to differentiate naturally occurring EPO from the genetically engineered version of the hormone.	And we're probably not really very close, said Dr. Don Catlin, who runs the Olympic drug testing laboratory at the University of California at Los Angeles and who is a member of International Olympic Committee's medical commission.
noLabel	Under Non-Formal Education programme, about 40% of the centres in states and 10% of the centres in UTs are exclusively reserved for females .	As of 2000, about 0.3 million NFE centres were catering to about 7.42 million children, out of which about 0.12 million were exclusively for girls .
noLabel	The work of French philosopher and social theorist, Michel Foucault has been utilized in a variety of disciplines, such as history, philosophy, anthropology, sociology, psychology, and linguistics.	Particularly influential for many who utilize the term, Cultural imperialism, is his philosophical interpretation of power and his concept of governmentality. 
noLabel	The loincloths worn by Egyptian and Greek laborers were very spare, sometimes consisting of little more than a covering for the glans of the penis.	Records of these types of loincloths being worn by men in higher classes have made some historians speculate they were worn during intercourse; others, however, are doubtful of such interpretations .
noLabel	Aesthetic issues are subjective and some people find wind farms pleasant and optimistic, or symbols of energy independence and local prosperity .	While some tourism officials predict wind farms will damage tourism, some wind farms have themselves become tourist attractions, with several having visitor centers at ground level or even observation decks atop turbine towers. 
noLabel	Modern roots of conservation biology can be found in the late 19th century Enlightenment period particularly in England and Scotland .	A number of thinkers, among them notably Lord Monboddo, described the importance of "preserving nature"; much of this early emphasis had its origins in Christian theology.
noLabel	On March 21, 2000, the Supreme Court in FDA v. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. held that based on their reading of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, particularly when considering "Congress’ subsequent tobacco-specific legislation," that Congress had not given the FDA the authority to regulate tobacco products as customarily marketed .	Thus the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act was introduced to respond to the decision, which had held that the Clinton administration's FDA had "overreached" its Congressionally delegated authority, thus giving the FDA the authority the Court determined it had lacked .
noLabel	He attributes the initial shift to adoption of a culture in which the assumptions of Protestant Christianity were taken for granted.	Few people believed strongly, but everyone believed a little in a moral code of helping others that was rooted in all religions.
noLabel	Under terms of the agreement, the U.S. retained its rights to bases on the island as part of the 1952 Treaty to protect Japan, but those bases were to be nuclear-free.	The United States military still controls about 19% of the island, making the 30,000 American servicemen a dominant feature in island life.
noLabel	First of all, in this "discourse of race struggle", "race" is not considered a biological notion — which would divide humanity into distinct biological groups — but as a historical notion.	Moreover, this discourse is opposed to the sovereign's discourse: it is used by the bourgeoisie, the people and the aristocracy as a mean of struggle against the monarchy.
noLabel	For example, if a fair coin is tossed repeatedly and tails comes up a larger number of times than is expected, a gambler may incorrectly believe that this means that heads is more likely in future tosses .	Such an expectation could be mistakenly referred to as being due, and it probably arises from everyday experiences with nonrandom events (such as when a scheduled train is late, where it can be expected that it has a greater chance of arriving the later it gets).
noLabel	So influential was this notion that 300 years later Bancroft in his monumental Native Races began his discussion of circumcision by writing: "Whether the custom of circumcision, which has been the great prop of argument in favor of the Jewish origin of the Aztecs, really obtained among these people, has been doubted by numerous authors," concluding that it probably existed in a "certain form among some tribes" (p278).	The key being "a certain form", since Bancroft makes clear in a footnote that the majority of his sources, including Clavigero, Ternaux-Compans, Carbajal Espinosa, Oviedo y Herrera, and especially Acosta, believed Durán and others "confounded the custom of drawing blood from the secret organs with circumcision", and "the incision on the prepuce and ear to have been mistaken for circumcision", adding that this blood-letting rite was "chiefly performed upon sons of great men" (p279).
noLabel	Criticism of the Israeli government, often referred to simply as criticism of Israel is an ongoing subject of journalistic and scholarly commentary and research within the scope of International relations theory, expressed in terms of political science.	Within the scope of global aspirations for a community of nations, Israel has faced international criticism since its declaration of independence in 1948 relating to a variety of topics, both historical and contemporary. 
noLabel	Balanitis has many causes, including irritation by environmental substances, physical trauma, and infection by a wide variety of pathogens, including bacteria, virus, yeast, or fungus — each of which require a particular treatment.	Good medical practice includes careful diagnosis with the aid of a good patient history, swabs and cultures, and pathologic examination of a biopsy.
noLabel	Facing mounting international calls to ease or lift their blockade, Egypt and Israel lessened the restrictions starting in June 2010, when the Rafah border crossing from Egypt to Gaza has been partially opened by Egypt, and Egypt’s foreign ministry has made it clear that the crossing will remain open mainly for people, but not for supplies, to go through .	Israel announced that it will allow all strictly civilian goods into Gaza while preventing certain weapons and dual-use items from entering the Hamas-run Gaza .
noLabel	 Let the opinions impugned be the belief of God and in a future state, or any of the commonly received doctrines of morality..	But I must be permitted to observe that it is not the feeling sure of a doctrine (be it what it may) which I call an assumption of infallibility.
noLabel	The Alberta oil sands have been in commercial production since the original Great Canadian Oil Sands (now Suncor Energy) mine began operation in 1967.	A second mine, operated by the Syncrude consortium, began operation in 1978 and is the biggest mine of any type in the world.
noLabel	" Breyer further argued that "This case is ultimately less about censorship than it is about education," believing that the Government has a vested interest in allowing parents to make decisions for their child as to "raise future generations committed cooperatively to making our system of government work," and that "California's law imposes no more than a modest restriction on expression.	" Breyer also expressed concern that the self-regulation of the industry still allowed for 20% of minors to purchase mature video games on a national average, and as high as 50% in the case of one nationwide chain, based on the aforementioned 2011 Federal Trade Commission study .
noLabel	Historian Niall Ferguson described the risk that foreign investors would demand higher interest rates as the U.S. debt levels increase over time in a November 2009 interview .	As of January 2012, public debt owned by foreigners has increased to approximately 50% of the total or approximately $5.0 trillion .
noLabel	In Croatia, the crime of insult prescribes a penalty of up to three months in prison, or a fine of “up to 100 daily incomes” (Criminal Code, Article 199).	If the crime is committed in public, penalties are aggravated to up to six months of imprisonment, or a fine of “up to 150 daily incomes” (Article 199-2).
noLabel	Rangel was accused of failing to report income from his rental of a beachside villa he owns in Punta Cana in the Dominican Republic.	A three-bedroom, three-bath unit, it has rented out for as much as $1,100 per night in the busiest tourist season . 
noLabel	However, the Republican Party decided not to fund ads for Rossi in the state as polls leading up to the election date showed Gregoire with a clear lead .	Almost all of Rossi's ads were paid for and created by outside sources, although as Gregoire's lead narrowed closer to the election date, the Republican Party ultimately decided to launch a series of advertisements for Rossi. 
noLabel	In temperate mesic climates, natural regeneration of forest stands often will not occur in the absence of disturbance, whether natural or anthropogenic .	Furthermore, biodiversity after regeneration harvest often mimics that found after natural disturbance, including biodiversity loss after naturally occurring rainforest destruction . 
noLabel	In male human anatomy, the foreskin is a generally retractable double-layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus () when the penis is not erect.	It is also described as the prepuce, a technically broader term that also includes the clitoral hood in women, to which the foreskin is embryonically homologous.
noLabel	The new Act required migrants to have a job before they arrived, to possess special skills or who would meet the "labour needs" of the national economy.	In 1965, to combat the perceived injustice in the case where the wives of British subjects could not obtain British nationality, the British Nationality Act was adopted.
noLabel	United States foreign policy affirms its alliance with the United Kingdom as its most important bilateral relationship in the world, evidenced by aligned political affairs between the White House and 10 Downing Street, as well as joint military operations carried out between the two nations.	While both the United States and the United Kingdom maintain close relationships with many other nations around the world, the level of cooperation in military planning, execution of military operations, nuclear weapons technology, and intelligence sharing with each other has been described as "unparalleled" among major powers throughout the 20th and early 21st century . 
noLabel	Of the 41 separate countries classified, seven were found to show no evidence of filtering in all three areas (Egypt, France, Germany, India, Ukraine, United Kingdom, and United States), while one was found to engage in pervasive filtering in all three areas (China), 13 were found to engage in pervasive filtering in one or more areas, and 34 were found to engage in some level of filtering in one or more areas.	Of the 10 countries classified in both 2007 and 2009, one reduced its level of filtering (Pakistan), five increased their level of filtering (Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, South Korea, and Uzbekistan), and four maintained the same level of filtering (China, Iran, Myanmar, and Tajikistan) .
noLabel	Opponents of consumerism argue that many luxuries and unnecessary consumer products may act as social mechanism allowing people to identify like-minded individuals through the display of similar products, again utilizing aspects of status-symbolism to judge socioeconomic status and social stratification.	Some people believe relationships with a product or brand name are substitutes for healthy human relationships lacking in societies, and along with consumerism, create a cultural hegemony, and are part of a general process of social control in modern society.
noLabel	" The ratio of lobbyists employed by the healthcare industry, compared with every elected politician, was six to one, according to one account .	Nevertheless, the numbers of lobbyists actively engaged in lobbying is considerably less, and the ones occupied with lobbying full-time and making significant money is even less. 
noLabel	Benjamin Sinclair "Ben" Johnson, CM (born December 30, 1961), is a former sprinter from Canada, who enjoyed a high-profile career during most of the 1980s, winning two Olympic bronze medals and an Olympic gold, which was subsequently rescinded.	He set consecutive 100 metres world records at the 1987 World Championships in Athletics and the 1988 Summer Olympics, but he was disqualified for doping, losing the Olympic title and both records.
noLabel	The World Bank defines extreme poverty as living on less than US $1.25 (PPP) per day, and moderate poverty as less than $2 or $5 a day (but note that a person or family with access to subsistence resources, e.g.	subsistence farmers, may have a low cash income without a correspondingly low standard of living – they are not living "on" their cash income but using it as a top up).
noLabel	On the other hand, host country observers, having no local counterpart to the Bill of Rights, often feel that this is an irrelevant excuse for demanding special treatment, and resembles the extraterritorial agreements demanded by Western countries during colonialism.	One host country where such sentiment is widespread, South Korea, itself has forces in Kyrgyzstan and has negotiated a SOFA that confers total immunity to its servicemembers from prosecution by Kyrgyz authorities for any crime whatsoever, something far in excess of the privileges many South Koreans object to in their nation's SOFA with the U.S . 
noLabel	Index on Censorship published the World Statement by the International Committee for the Defence of Salman Rushdie in support of “the right of all people to express their ideas and beliefs and to discuss them with their critics on the basis of mutual tolerance, free from censorship, intimidation and violence.	Six months later, Index published the Hunger Strike Declaration from four student leaders of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989, Liu Xiaobo, Zhou Duo, Hou Dejian and Gao Xin. 
noLabel	However, it was in the 1980s under the leaderships of Margaret Thatcher in the UK and Ronald Reagan in the USA, that privatization gained worldwide momentum.	In the UK this culminated in the 1993 privatization of British Rail under Thatcher's successor, John Major; British Rail having been formed by prior nationalization of private rail companies. 
noLabel	The booklet contained information on building a nuclear refuge within a so-called 'fall out room' at home, sanitation, limiting fire hazards and descriptions of the audio signals for attack warning, fallout warning and all clear.	It was anticipated that families might need to stay within the fall-out room for up to fourteen days after an attack almost without leaving it at all. 
noLabel	Others argue that since children from impoverished families almost exclusively attend public schools, school choice programs would allow these students to opt out of bad schools and acquire a better education, thereby granting the decision-making power to students and their parents, not school administrators.	Supporters say this would level the playing field by broadening opportunities for low-income students to attend as good of schools as the middle classes instead of the current two-tiered system which educates the middle and upper classes, but not the lower classes, particularly minorities . 
noLabel	Many states' constitutional provisions for firearm rights are at least similar to, if not directly derived from, the Second Amendment of the United States Constitution.	Hawaii's constitution simply copies the text of the Second Amendment verbatim, while North Carolina, and South Carolina begin with the same but continue with an injunction against maintaining standing armies .
noLabel	When an employer requests a drug test from an employee, or a physician requests a drug test from a patient, the employee or patient is typically instructed to go to a collection site or their home.	The patient or employee’s urine is collected at a remote location in a specially designed secure cup, sealed with tamper-resistant tape, and sent to a testing laboratory to be screened for drugs (typically the SAMHSA 5 panel).
noLabel	Interventions to identify victims of interpersonal violence and provide effective care and support are critical for protecting health and breaking cycles of violence from one generation to the next.	Examples for which evidence of effectiveness is emerging includes: screening tools to identify victims of intimate partner violence and refer them to appropriate services; psychosocial interventions – such as trauma-focused cognitive behavioural therapy – to reduce mental health problems associated with violence, including post-traumatic stress disorder; and protection orders, which prohibit a perpetrator from contacting the victim, to reduce repeat victimization among victims of intimate partner violence.
noLabel	It would enter the United States at Morgan, Montana and travel through Baker, Montana where domestic oil would be added to the pipeline, then it would travel through South Dakota and Nebraska, where it would join the existing Keystone pipelines at Steele City, Nebraska .	This phase has generated the greatest controversy because of its routing over the top of the Ogallala Aquifer in Nebraska .
noLabel	Another critique is that, in countries historically dominated by one religious tradition, officially avoiding taking any positions on religious matters favors the dominant religious tradition of the relevant country.	They point out that even in the current French Fifth Republic (1958–), school holidays mostly follow the Christian liturgical year, even though Easter holidays have been replaced by Spring holidays, which may or may not include Easter, depending on the years.
noLabel	Passage of the law was supported by the American Cancer Society, whose CEO noted in a press release that "[t]his bill forces Big Tobacco to disclose the poisons in its products and has the power to finally break the dangerous chain of addiction for generations to come.	" The ACS press release also noted that the legislation would "require cigarette companies to disclose all ingredients used in cigarettes and to stop using words like 'light' and 'ultra-light' to give the impression that some tobacco products have a lower health risk."
noLabel	A minority government situation occurs when the party that holds the most seats in the House of Commons still holds less than the opposition parties combined.	In this scenario a party leader is selected by the Governor General to lead the government, however, to attempt to create stability, the person chosen must command the support of at least one other party.
noLabel	With the victory of Republican Scott Brown in the special election to fill the Senate seat vacated by the death of Senator Edward Kennedy, the Democrats lost their filibuster-proof majority.	Since Brown had declared himself opposed to the health-care measure, the party's leadership opted to enact the legislation through the budget reconciliation process . 
noLabel	Education was not made compulsory immediately (not until 1880) since many factory owners feared the removal of children as a source of cheap labour.	However, with the simple mathematics and English they were acquiring, factory owners now had workers who could read and make measurements. 
noLabel	In his book, The Servile State, English political writer Hilaire Belloc makes his case for the natural instability of pure capitalism and discusses how, as he believes, attempts to reform capitalism will lead almost inexorably to an economy where state regulation has removed the freedom of capitalism and thereby replaced capitalism with what he calls the Servile State.	He believes that this servile state shares with ancient slavery the fact that positive law (as opposed to custom or economic necessity by themselves) dictates that certain people will work for others, who likewise must take care of them, and so the welfare state may lead to a kind of serfdom, in which one group works to support another group that does not work. 
noLabel	After World War II, the National Committee for Burakumin Liberation was founded, changing its name to the Buraku Liberation League (Buraku Kaihō Dōmei) in the 1950s.	The league, with the support of the socialist and communist parties, pressured the government into making important concessions in the late 1960s and 1970s. 
noLabel	The most recent survey on deforestation and greenhouse gas emissions reports that deforestation in the Brazilian Amazon is responsible for as much as 10% of current greenhouse gas emissions due to the removal of forest which would have otherwise absorbed the emissions having a clear effect on global warming.	The problem is made worse by the method of removing the forest where many trees are burned to the ground emitting vast amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, not only affecting air quality in areas of Brazil but affecting the carbon dioxide levels globally in addition as a result. 
noLabel	Studies have found that females tend to think more about their body shape and endorse thinner figures than men even into old age .	When female undergraduates were exposed to depictions of thin women their body satisfaction decreased, but rose when exposed to larger models . 
noLabel	) Republicans for Environmental Protection (REP), whose scorecards rate only Republican lawmakers, gave Paul a score of only 5% for 2010, and 2% for 2009-2010, on a 0 - 100% scale in which a perfect score of 100% is considered by REP to be a measure of strong support for environmental protection.	Republicans for Environmental Protection rated Paul "Worst in the House" on the environment of all Republican representatives in the 111th Congress (2009-2010) .
noLabel	As declared by the judge at trial "The film shows occasional nudity, but nudity alone does not render material obscene under Miller's standards."	This was upheld time and again in later cases including "Erznoznik v. City of Jacksonville FL, 422 U.S. 205 (1975)" in which the city of Jacksonville stated that showing films containing nudity when the screen is visible from a public street or place is a punishable offense.
noLabel	Dr (Heinz) Wuschech knows more about anabolic steroids than any doctor I have ever met, and yet he cannot discuss them openly any more than Geoff Capes or Mac Wilkins can openly discuss them in the current climate of amateur sports regulation.	What I did learn in East Germany was that they feel there is little danger from anabolica, as they call it, when the athletes are kept on strictly monitored programmes.
noLabel	Professor Carrington has argued that such a measure would not require a constitutional amendment as “the Constitution doesn’t even mention life tenure; it merely requires that justices serve during ‘good behaviour.’” The idea was not without support among Judges, as John Roberts supported term limits before he was appointed to the Supreme Court as Chief Justice .	Calebresi, Lingren, and Carrington have also proposed that when Justices have served out their proposed 18 year term they should be able to sit on other Federal Courts until retirement, death, or removal . 
noLabel	The Mennonite Church USA, the General Conference Mennonite Church, and the Conservative Mennonite Conference have adopted statements indicating approval of modern methods of contraception.	For example, while also teaching and encouraging love and acceptance of children, the Conservative Mennonite Conference maintains, "The prevention of pregnancy when feasible by birth control with pre-fertilization methods is acceptable.
noLabel	The Treason Act 1939 gave legislative effect to Article 39, and provided for the imposition of the death penalty for treason .	The Criminal Justice Act 1990 abolished the death penalty, setting the punishment for treason at life imprisonment, with parole in not less than forty years .
noLabel	It noted, "There is no doubt that even though a Bill..would in form be non-discriminatory, it would nevertheless be clear against whom the Bill was really directed".	The committee agreed that, presentationally, it would be best to emphasise the potential housing shortages that further migration might bring about. 
noLabel	In disallowing many state and federal restrictions on abortion in the United States, Roe v. Wade prompted a national debate that continues today, about issues including whether and to what extent abortion should be legal, who should decide the legality of abortion, what methods the Supreme Court should use in constitutional adjudication, and what the role should be of religious and moral views in the political sphere.	Roe v. Wade reshaped national politics, dividing much of the United States into pro-choice and pro-life camps, while activating grassroots movements on both sides.
noLabel	If a woman is in hard travail, one cuts up the offspring in her womb and brings it forth member by member, because her life comes before the life of her foetus.	But if the greater part has proceeded forth, one may not set aside one person for the sake of saving another . 
noLabel	The economist William Easterly and others have argued that aid can often distort incentives in poor countries in various harmful ways.	Aid can also involve inflows of money to poor countries that have some similarities to inflows of money from natural resources that provoke the resource curse . 
noLabel	Later, evidence emerged that the US may have stored and used Agent Orange at its bases and training areas on the island .	In at least one location where Agent Orange was reportedly used, there have been unexplained incidences of leukemia among locals, one of the listed effects of Agent Orange exposure.
noLabel	Existentialism is a term applied to the work of a number of 19th- and 20th-century philosophers who, despite profound doctrinal differences, generally held that the focus of philosophical thought should be to deal with the conditions of existence of the individual person and his or her emotions, actions, responsibilities, and thoughts .	The early 19th century philosopher Søren Kierkegaard, posthumously regarded as the father of existentialism, maintained that the individual solely has the responsibilities of giving one's own life meaning and living that life passionately and sincerely, in spite of many existential obstacles and distractions including despair, angst, absurdity, alienation, and boredom . 
noLabel	During European settlement, early in the history of the United States of America a variety of languages were spoken, not to mention the language of the indigenous peoples who were the first to live in the continent.	However, when the United States was forming as a country, it became clear that English would undoubtedly become the language of the country.
noLabel	[Patents] projected an artificial idol of the single inventor, radically denigrated the role of the intellectual commons, and blocked a path to this commons for other citizens — citizens who were all, on this account, potential inventors too.	[..] Patentees were the equivalent of squatters on public land — or better, of uncouth market traders who planted their barrows in the middle of the highway and barred the way of the people.
noLabel	entitled "Of the 1%, by the 1%, for the 1%" and claimed that the wealthiest one percent of U.S. citizens control 40 percent of the American wealth .	In 2011, Dan Rather reported that independent media maven Priscilla Grim and her friend Chris launched the "we are the 99%" tumblr blog on September 8, that went viral .
noLabel	For the portions of the ranking that are determined by polls and computer-generated rankings, the BCS uses a series of Borda counts to arrive at its overall rankings.	This is an example of using a voting system to generate a complete ordered list of winners from both human and computer-constructed votes.
noLabel	In August, 2009, officials at Yale University Press decided to expunge reproductions of the cartoons along with all other images of Muhammad from a scholarly book entitled The Cartoons that Shook the World, by professor Jytte Klausen .	News of the decision sparked criticism from some prominent Yale alumni as well as from the American Association of University Professors.
noLabel	The most common unsupervised use of antihistamines in terms of volume and percentage of the total is perhaps in parallel to the medicinal use of some antihistamines to stretch out and intensify the effects of opioids and depressants.	The most commonly used are hydroxyzine, mainly to stretch out a supply of other drugs, as in medical use, and the above-mentioned ethanolamine and alkylamine-class first-generation antihistamines, which are - once again as in the 1950s - the subject of medical research into their anti-depressant properties. 
noLabel	Native Americans, who have lived on the North American continent for at least 20,000 years, had an enormously complex impact on American history and racial relations.	During the colonial and independent periods, a long series of conflicts were waged, with the primary objective of obtaining resources of Native Americans.
noLabel	Before the advent of the SLBM, thinkers feared that a nation might be tempted to initiate a first strike if it felt confident that such a strike would incapacitate the nuclear arsenal of its enemy, making retaliation impossible.	With the advent of SLBMs, no nation could be certain that a first strike would incapacitate its enemy's entire nuclear arsenal.
noLabel	Two slots behind the Horned Frogs were WAC champions Boise State, which finished at 13–0 for its second consecutive unbeaten regular season and fourth in six years.	The Broncos defeated the Frogs 17–10 in the 2010 Fiesta Bowl, which marked the first BCS matchup between non-AQ schools, and the first time in BCS history that two unbeaten teams met in a BCS game other than the title match.
noLabel	Advocates of affirmative action programs often deny that these programs involve quotas, although some openly do, such as the admission program of the Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul .	Advocates may regard the term "racial quotas" as particularly divisive in that it is assumed to be backed by the force of law to enable or disable certain linked programs or benefits based solely upon attainment of the one quota measure. 
noLabel	Although uranium-238 cannot be used for the initial stage of an atomic bomb, when U-238 absorbs a neutron, it transforms first into an unstable element, uranium-239, and then decays into neptunium-239, and finally the relatively stable plutonium-239, an element that does not exist naturally on Earth.	Plutonium is also fissile and can be used to create a fission reaction, and after Enrico Fermi achieved the world's first sustained and controlled nuclear chain reaction in the creation of the first "atomic pile"&mdash;a primitive nuclear reactor&mdash;in a basement at the University of Chicago, massive reactors were secretly created at what is now known as Hanford Site in Washington State – using water from the Columbia River in the cooling process – to transform uranium-238 into plutonium for a bomb. 
noLabel	For example, artists such as Eminem, a white American who adopted a contemporary African American musical style may be perceived this way.	Another prominent example of cultural appropriation is the use of real or imaginary elements of Native American culture by North American summer camps, by organizations such as the Boy Scouts of America, or by New Age gurus, some of whom put up for commercial wholesale, paraphernalia modelled on Native American healing traditions and techniques (see plastic shamans).
noLabel	Polyurethane can be considered better than latex in several ways: it conducts heat better than latex, is not as sensitive to temperature and ultraviolet light (and so has less rigid storage requirements and a longer shelf life), can be used with oil-based lubricants, is less allergenic than latex, and does not have an odor .	Polyurethane condoms have gained FDA approval for sale in the United States as an effective method of contraception and HIV prevention, and under laboratory conditions have been shown to be just as effective as latex for these purposes . 
noLabel	Espen J. Aarseth argues that, although games certainly have plots, characters, and aspects of traditional narratives, these aspects are incidental to gameplay.	For example, Aarseth is critical of the widespread attention that narrativists have given to the heroine of the game Tomb Raider, saying that "the dimensions of Lara Croft's body, already analyzed to death by film theorists, are irrelevant to me as a player, because a different-looking body would not make me play differently..
noLabel	The Catholic view is that since the twelve apostles chosen by Jesus were all male, only men may be ordained in the Catholic Church .	While some consider this to be evidence of a discriminatory attitude toward women, the Church believes that Jesus called women to different yet equally important vocations in Church ministry .
noLabel	The law was determined to be invalid as it was an infringement of First Amendment rights of the movie producer and theatre owners.	The second is single male to female vaginal-only penetration that does NOT show the actual ejaculation of semen, sometimes referred to as "soft-core" pornography wherein the sexual act and its fulfillment (orgasm) are merely implied to happen rather than explicitly shown. 
noLabel	Media transparency brings up issues concerning freedom of speech since the governments may censor what information is conveyed in order to sway public opinion.	Corruption has been a major issue in the growth and progress of certain areas of the world, because there is a lack of media transparency. 
noLabel	With the arrival of World War II, Hollywood produced many morale boosting movies, patriotic rallying cries that affirmed a sense of national purpose.	The image of the lone cowboy was replaced in these combat films by stories that emphasized group efforts and the value of individual sacrifices for a larger cause, often featuring a group of men from diverse ethnic backgrounds who were thrown together, tested on the battlefield, and molded into a dedicated fighting unit . 
noLabel	In Europe, Christian churches were sometimes built on land considered as a particularly 'holy spot', perhaps where a miracle or martyrdom had allegedly taken place or where a holy person was buried.	Examples are St. Peter's Basilica in Rome and St. Albans Cathedral in England, which commemorate the martyrdom of Saint Peter (the first Pope) and Saint Alban (the first Christian martyr in Britain), respectively.
noLabel	Films with sexually explicit themes have also been banned, including Farewell My Concubine, Brokeback Mountain and Memoirs of a Geisha .	Warner Brothers never submitted The Dark Knight for censors, citing "Cultural sensitivities in some elements of the film" due to the appearance by a Hong Kong singer who's sexually explicit photographs leaked onto the internet . 
noLabel	Two imams who had been granted sanctuary in Denmark, dissatisfied with the reaction of the Danish Government and Jyllands-Posten, created a dossier containing a forty-three-page document entitled "Dossier about championing the prophet Muhammad peace be upon him.	" This consisted of several letters from Muslim organisations explaining their case including allegations of the mistreatment of Danish Muslims, citing the Jyllands-Posten cartoons (including the false claim that said publication was a government-run newspaper) and further containing the following causes of "pain and torment" for the authors:
noLabel	When men fight, and one of them pushes a pregnant woman so that her children depart (yatsa), but no other damage (ason) ensues, the one responsible shall be fined according as the woman's husband may exact from him, the payment to be based on reckoning.	But if other damage ensues, the penalty shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. 
noLabel	Rugby football, despite its origins in the privileged English public schools, was a popular game throughout England by around 1880, including in the large working-class areas of the industrial north.	However, as the then-amateur sport became increasingly popular and competitive, attracting large paying crowds, teams in such areas found it difficult to attract and retain good players.
noLabel	The documented history of social housing in Britain starts with almshouses which were established from the 10th century, to provide a place of residence for "poor, old and distressed folk".	The first recorded almshouse was founded in York by King Athelstan, and the oldest still in existence is the Hospital of St. Cross in Winchester, dating to circa 1133.
noLabel	Repeated polling has found that a majority of Americans believe the constitution ensures their right to own a gun, and a majority also supports stricter enforcement of current laws .	However, only 43 percent believe new laws would be more effective than better enforcement of existing laws in reducing gun violence in the United States .
noLabel	The United States expressed concern about the tone, content and conclusions of the report, while the European Union said that it should be transferred to the UN Secretary-General's investigation .	On 29 September 2010 the UN Human Rights Council voted to endorse the report, with 30 of the 47 countries voting in favor, the United States voting against, and 15 countries, including EU members, abstaining .
noLabel	The Muhammad Ali Effect is a term used in psychology that was named after him when he stated, "I only said I was the greatest, not the smartest" in his autobiography The Greatest: My Own Story .	This term is named after Ali because when people are asked to rate their intelligence and moral behavior in comparison to others, people will rate themselves as more moral, but not more intelligent than others .
noLabel	In 1999, Gulf Cartel leader Osiel Cardenas Guillen, hired a group of 31 corrupt former elite military soldiers now known as Los Zetas, who deserted from the Airmobile Special Forces Group (GAFE) and the Amphibian Group of Special Forces (GANFE) of the Mexican Army, and began operating as a private army for the Gulf Cartel.	The Zetas have been instrumental in the Gulf Cartel's domination of the drug trade in much of Mexico and have fought to maintain the cartel's influence in northern cities following the arrest of Osiel Cardenas. 
noLabel	The World health organization (WHO) and World Bank estimate that $3.00 per person per year would provide basic family planning, maternal and neonatal health care to women in developing countries.	This would include contraception, prenatal, delivery and post-natal care in addition to postpartum family planning and the promotion of condoms to prevent sexually transmitted infections .
noLabel	Access to Information Act (R.S., 1985, c. A-1) or Information Act is a Canadian act providing the right of access to information under the control of a government institution.	It declares that government information should be available to the public, but with necessary exceptions to the right of access should be limited and specific, and that decisions on the disclosure of any government information should always be reviewed independently of government. 
noLabel	After the FLQ crisis, many attacks were made against the press, suggesting that the media were irresponsible in the way they elaborated rumors during a time of crisis .	Criticism reached highs to the point that after Pierre Laporte’s death on October 17, 1970, the Liberal Party whip, Louise-Philippe Lacroix accused the journalists of being responsible for the death .
noLabel	Many consider that an open world economic system (globalization), which includes world bodies such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank, and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), places countries at risk by practicing explicitly discriminatory techniques such as bilateral and regional bargaining, as well as asymmetrical trade balances and the maintaining of cheap force labor.	Trade policies like the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) are often regarded as financial measures serving only to economically oppress third world nations . 
noLabel	The Human Rights Act 1998 requires the courts to interpret the law in a way that is compatible with the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.	The offence of blasphemous libel is believed by some to be contrary to the freedom of speech provisions in the Convention.
noLabel	The construction of wind farms is not universally welcomed, but any effects on the environment from wind power are generally much less problematic than those of any other power source .	Large-scale implementation of wind energy production will however need to address concerns related to siting, aesthetic and environmental factors, and land availability .
noLabel	Harm reduction seeks to minimize the harm that can occur through the use of various drugs, whether legal (e.g., alcohol and nicotine), or illegal (e.g., heroin and cocaine).	For example, people who inject illicit drugs can minimize harm to both themselves and members of the community through proper injecting technique, using new needles and syringes each time, and proper disposal of all injecting equipment.
noLabel	This section outlines different financial incentives available by state, and programs designed to increase the development and use of wind power.	It also displays state permitting and ordinance requirements, usually done on a county level, that are important to know before installing wind turbines.
noLabel	Some jurisdictions over the world restrict the publication of the results of opinion polls in order to prevent the possibly erroneous results from affecting voters' decisions.	For instance, in Canada, it is prohibited to publish the results of opinion surveys that would identify specific political parties or candidates in the final three days before a poll closes . 
noLabel	A weaker or more moderate form of this political theory does hold, however, that the king is subject to the church and the pope, although completely irreproachable in other ways; but according to this doctrine in its strong form, only God can judge an unjust king.	The doctrine implies that any attempt to depose the king or to restrict his powers runs contrary to the will of God and may constitute a sacrilegious act. 
noLabel	The Hippocratic Corpus, collection of medical works from ancient Greece, mentions concussion, later translated to commotio cerebri, and discusses loss of speech, hearing and sight that can result from "commotion of the brain" .	This idea of disruption of mental function by "shaking of the brain" remained the widely accepted understanding of concussion until the 19th&nbsp;century .
noLabel	EUCLID (Pôle Universitaire Euclide, Euclid University) is chartered as a university and umbrella organization dedicated to sustainable development in signatory countries and United Nations University efforts to resolve the pressing global problems that are the concern of the United Nations, its Peoples and Member States.	The European University Institute, a post-graduate university specialised in the social sciences, is officially an intergovernmental organisation, set up by the member states of the European Union.
noLabel	In 2009, 10 projects are under construction, with a capacity of 256 MW, and in 2010, 45 started the construction to generate 2,139 MW, in several States.	The U.S. company General Electric has one industry in Brazil, in the city of Campinas, and one partnership with the Tecsis in Sorocaba, meeting the demand of the new projects . 
noLabel	Originally developed to measure bone density, DEXA imaging has also come to be used as a precise way to determine body fat content by using the density of various body tissues to identify which portions of the body are fat.	This test is generally considered to be very accurate, but requires a great deal of expensive medical equipment and trained professionals to perform. 
noLabel	The Republicans declined to broadcast an official opposition response, as it is traditionally done after a presidential address to a joint session of Congress.	This decision was criticized by House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi as being "disrespectful" to the president and the American people .
noLabel	The 3 co authors of the report wanted to address the "aspersions cast on the findings of the report and challenge them.	Members of the mission, signatories to this statement, find it necessary to dispel any impression that subsequent developments have rendered any part of the mission's report unsubstantiated, erroneous or inaccurate". 
noLabel	There are three main schools of thought in early criminological theory spanning the period from the mid-18th century to the mid-twentieth century, which are Classical, Positive, and Chicago.	These schools of thought were superseded by several contemporary paradigms of criminology, such as the sub-culture, control, strain, labeling, critical criminology, cultural criminology, postmodern criminology, feminist criminology and others discussed below.
noLabel	Given the significant difficulty in obtaining refugee status, many asylum seekers seek non profit legal representation (such as the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (“UNHCR”), that help them consider the most durable and realistic solution for them and their family.	Without legal assistance, the legal intricacies of the Law on Refugees are likely to be overlooked, and their application for asylum could be denied regardless of the legitimacy of their claim.
noLabel	The result of the hearings was that the entertainment software industry was given one year to form a working rating system or the federal government would intervene and create its own system.	Eventually, the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB) was conceived, requiring all video games to be rated and for these ratings to be placed on the games' packaging .
noLabel	In countries offering state-subsidized or nationally funded healthcare where medical professionals are underpaid, patients may use bribery to solicit the standard expected level of medical care.	For example, in many formerly Communist countries from what used to be the Eastern Bloc it may be customary to offer expensive gifts to doctors and nurses for the delivery of service at any level of medical care in the non-private health sector .
noLabel	In Australia, election officials almost always conduct a first preference count (and sometimes a two candidate preference allocation) under the scrutiny of the candidates or their appointed scrutineers at individual polling booths immediately after polling closes .	That count is communicated to the electorate returning officer at a central location on the night and the actual ballot papers are secured and subsequently delivered to that official.
noLabel	Israel maintains that the blockade is necessary to limit Palestinian rocket attacks from the Gaza Strip on its cities and to prevent Hamas from obtaining other weapons.	Prior to its 2011 opening of the Rafah crossing, Egypt maintained that it could not fully open its side of the border since completely opening the border would represent Egyptian recognition of the Hamas control of Gaza, undermine the legitimacy of the Palestinian National Authority and consecrate the split between Gaza and the West Bank . 
noLabel	Some sociologists have also pointed out, with reference to the USA and elsewhere, that forms of racism have in many instances mutated from more blatant expressions hereof into more covert kinds (albeit that blatant forms of hatred and discrimination still endure).	The “newer” (more hidden and less easily detectable) forms of racism—which can be considered as embedded in social processes and structures—are more difficult to explore as well as challenge.
noLabel	The Social theory is often closer to Continental philosophy, more subjective, and is much more likely to use the language of values and judgment: referring to the concepts of "good" or "bad" .	Prominent sociological theorists include Talcott Parsons, Robert K. Merton, Randall Collins, James Samuel Coleman, Peter Blau, Marshal McLuhan, Immanuel Wallerstein, George Homans, Harrison White, Theda Skocpol, Gerhard Lenski, Pierre van den Berghe and Jonathan H. Turner . 
noLabel	In one survey, 67% of children from disadvantaged inner cities said they had witnessed a serious assault, and 33% reported witnessing a homicide .	51% of fifth graders from New Orleans (median income for a household: $27,133) have been found to be victims of violence, compared to 32% in Washington, DC (mean income for a household: $40,127) .
noLabel	STOP has been evaluated and found not to have a significant effect on gun ownership or firearm storage practices by inner-city parents .	Marjorie S. Hardy suggests further evaluation of STOP is needed, as this evaluation had a limited sample size and lacked a control group .
noLabel	The same study found that dose to be sufficient to significantly improve lean muscle mass relative to placebo even in subjects that did not exercise at all .	A 2001 study by the same first author, showed that the anabolic effects of testosterone enanthate were highly dose dependent .
noLabel	Some examples of this in present day are statistics including, but not limited to, the racial breakdown of the prison population versus the national population, physical abilities and mental ability statistics, and other data gathered by scientific groups.	While these statistics may be accurate, and can show trends, it's inappropriate in most countries to assume that because a particular race has a high crime or low literacy rate, that the entire race of people are inherent criminals, or inherently unintelligent. 
noLabel	In both animals and humans, MTBI can alter the brain's physiology for hours to weeks, setting into motion a variety of pathological events .	Though these events are thought to interfere with neuronal and brain function, the metabolic processes that follow concussion are reversed in a large majority of affected brain cells; however a few cells may die after the injury . 
noLabel	In the United Kingdom, the first Aldermaston March organised by the Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament took place at Easter 1958, when several thousand people marched for four days from Trafalgar Square, London, to the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment close to Aldermaston in Berkshire, England, to demonstrate their opposition to nuclear weapons .	The Aldermaston marches continued into the late 1960s when tens of thousands of people took part in the four-day marches . 
noLabel	Economist Michael Spence explained in August 2011 that over the 1990-2008 period, job creation was almost entirely in the "non-tradable" sector (which produces goods and services that must be consumed domestically, like healthcare) with few jobs created in the "tradable" sector (which produces goods that can be sold internationally, like manufacturing).	He stated that job creation in both sectors is necessary and that various factors, such as the housing bubble, hid the lack of job creation in the tradable sector.
noLabel	In nearly all cases, the monarch is still the nominal chief executive, but is bound by constitutional convention to act on the advice of the Cabinet.	Only a few monarchies (most notably Japan and Sweden) have amended their constitutions so that the monarch is no longer even the nominal chief executive. 
noLabel	Those who contribute more code, and have more of an effect on the direction or status of the project, will tend to have more seniority and influence.	The Apache Software Foundation and the Mozilla Foundation are examples of (open source) organizations which officially claim to be meritocracies .
noLabel	An independent production, the filmmaker interviewed subjects from both sides of the debate including Jim Gordon, the driving force behind Cape Wind and Isaac Rosen, then director of the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound.	Focusing also on wind power in general, Wind Over Water features aerial footage of the offshore wind farm at Horns Rev in Denmark and footage from various wind farms in the U.S. On December&nbsp;6, 2003 the film made its world and Cape Cod premiere at the Lillie Auditorium in Woods Hole. 
noLabel	In August 2010 an eight day old boy was circumcised in a Florida hospital against the stated wishes of the parents.	The hospital admitted that the boy was circumcised by mistake, but the mother has sued the hospital and the doctor involved in the case .
noLabel	The aggressive support of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation for intermittent preventive therapy of malaria which included the commissioning of a report from the Institute of Medicine triggered a memo from the former WHO malaria chief Dr. Akira Kochi .	Dr. Kochi wrote, “although it was less and less straightforward that the health agency should recommend IPTi, the agency’s objections were met with intense and aggressive opposition from Gates-backed scientists and the foundation”.
noLabel	Since the inception of Proinfa, Brazil's wind energy production has escalated from 22 MW in 2003 to 602 MW in 2009, as part of 36 private projects.	Another 10 projects are under construction, with a capacity of 256.4 MW, and 45 additional projects have been approved be ANEEL with an estimated potential of 2,139.7 MW. 
noLabel	A "handheld" gaming device is a self contained electronic device that is portable and can be held in a user's hands.	"Arcade game" generally refers to a game played on an even more specialized type of electronic device that is typically designed to play only one game and is encased in a special cabinet.
noLabel	The survey asks questions about direct attacks on journalists and the media as well as other indirect sources of pressure against the free press, such as non-governmental groups.	RWB is careful to note that the index only deals with press freedom, and does not measure the quality of journalism. 
noLabel	When preferential ballots are used, a voter can vote for a minor party candidate as their first choice, and also indicate their order of preference for the remaining candidates, without regard for whether a candidate is in a major political party.	For example, voters who support a very liberal candidate can select a somewhat liberal candidate as their second choice, thus minimising the chance that their vote will result in the election of a conservative candidate. 
noLabel	Friedman, for example, argued that the Great Depression was result of a contraction of the money supply, controlled by the Federal Reserve, and not by the lack of investment as John Maynard Keynes had argued.	Ben Bernanke, current Chairman of the Federal Reserve, is among the economists today generally accepting Friedman's analysis of the causes of the Great Depression . 
noLabel	The Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) was originally established by the National Narcotics Leadership Act of 1988, which mandated a national anti-drug media campaign for youth, which would later become the National Youth Anti-Drug Media Campaign .	The director of ONDCP is commonly known as the Drug czar, and it was first implemented in 1989 under President George H. W. Bush, and raised to cabinet-level status by Bill Clinton in 1993 .
noLabel	In the case of low-level contamination by isotopes with a short half-life, the best course of action may be to simply allow the material to naturally decay.	Longer-lived isotopes should be cleaned up and properly disposed of, because even a very low level of radiation can be life-threatening when in long exposure to it. 
noLabel	The three main Directives are the Equal Treatment Directive (Directive 2006/54/EC, for gender), the Racial Equality Directive (2000/48/EC) and the Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation (2000/78/EC, for religion, belief, sexuality, disability and age).	Updates can be implemented automatically in domestic legislation as required by the case law of the European Court of Justice or changes in EU legislation.
noLabel	commitment, in a combination of reserve and active duty time, for every line military member regardless of their means of entry.	Meanwhile, the SSS kept itself alive by devising and managing a complex system of deferments for a swelling pool of candidates 
noLabel	Evidence emerging suggests that limiting access to firearms can prevent homicides and injuries and reduce the costs of these forms of violence to society.	There is some evidence, for example, to suggest that jurisdictions with restrictive firearms legislation and lower firearms ownership tend to have lower levels of gun violence .
noLabel	Jean-Robert Lafortune of the Haitian American Grassroots Coalition is quoted as saying that "The game shouldn't be designed to destroy human life, it shouldn't be designed to destroy an ethnic group," for this and similar scenarios, including lines in the game's script such as "kill the Haitian dickheads" said by character "Diaz" during an altercation between the player and a Haitian gang.	After the threat of a lawsuit by the Haitian-American Grassroots Coalition, Rockstar removed the word "Haitians" from this phrase in the game's subtitles .
noLabel	When discussing smoking among females it is crucial to also take into account the fact that smoking, and tobacco use in general, is a global issue that is not confined to the borders of the Western world.	The World Health Organization (WHO) notes the stark difference between women in various geographic locations as it states that “[a]bout 22 percent of women in developed countries and 9 percent of women in developing countries smoke tobacco.”  However, numerically the number of women could be more in developing countries . 
noLabel	A referendum for the preservation of the USSR was held on 17 March 1991, with the majority of the population voting for preservation of the Union in nine out of 15 republics.	The referendum gave Gorbachev a minor boost, and, in the summer of 1991, the New Union Treaty was designed and agreed upon by eight republics which would have turned the Soviet Union into a much looser federation.
noLabel	In the United States, during the so-called colonial period and Articles of Confederation years (1778–89), several states adopted patent systems of their own.	The first Congress adopted a Patent Act, in 1790, and the first patent was issued under this Act on  (to Samuel Hopkins of Vermont for a potash production technique).
noLabel	By September 2009, McCain had largely disengaged from the climate change debate, and criticized the Waxman-Markey Climate Change Bill out of the House as "appear[ing] to be a cap & tax bill that I won't support" and having "a lot of special deals for a lot of special interests.	" The senator also had both substantive and procedural objections to the cap-and-trade bill being worked on in the Senate .
noLabel	One type of criticism has come from those who acknowledge the challenges stemming from China's high population growth but believe that less intrusive options, including those that emphasized delay and spacing of births, could have achieved the same results over an extended period of time.	Susan Greenhalgh's (2003) review of the policy-making process behind the adoption of the OCPF shows that some of these alternatives were known but not fully considered by China's political leaders .
noLabel	In 2002 the watchdog groups POGO, Government Accountability Project, and Public Employees for Environmental Responsibility, co-published the book The Art of Anonymous Activism: Serving the Public while Surviving Public Service.	It is described as a "how-to guide" for government employees who wish to expose corruption or misconduct in their organization without endangering their careers .
noLabel	If one flips a coin 21 times in a row and obtains 21 heads, one might rationally conclude a high probability of bias towards heads, and hence conclude that future flips of this coin are also highly likely to be heads.	In fact, Bayesian inference can be used to show that when the long-run proportion of different outcomes are unknown but exchangeable (meaning that the random process from which they are generated may be biased but is equally likely to be biased in any direction) previous observations demonstrate the likely direction of the bias, such that the outcome which has occurred the most in the observed data is the most likely to occur again .
noLabel	Lichen sclerosus et atrophicus (LSA) produces a whitish-yellowish patch on the skin, and is not believed to be always harmful or painful, and may sometimes disappear without intervention.	Some consider balanitis xerotica obliterans to be a form of LSA that happens to be on the foreskin, where it may cause pathological phimosis. 
noLabel	In 1980, Holt said, "I want to make it clear that I don't see homeschooling as some kind of answer to badness of schools.	I think that the home is the proper base for the exploration of the world which we call learning or education.
noLabel	As a result of a wave of challenges to the 1965 Voting Rights Act, that seminal American law faces a likely review by the supreme court, whose conservative Republican majority is the most rightward-leaning in modern history.	If the Voting Rights Act is toppled, other civil rights laws ΓÇô including the 1964 Civil Rights Act ΓÇô are in danger as well.Faced with recalcitrant state officials who prohibited blacks from voting, and federal laws that proved inadequate in stopping them, Congress passed the Voting Rights Act.
noLabel	In a speech to AIPAC on April 23, 2002, McCain said that "no American leader should be expected to sell a false peace to our ally, consider Israel's right to self-defense less legitimate than ours, or insist that Israel negotiate a political settlement while terrorism remains the Palestinians' preferred bargaining tool.	" During the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict, McCain said, regarding Israel's role in the conflict with Lebanon and Hezbollah, "What would we do if somebody came across our borders and killed our soldiers and captured our soldiers?
noLabel	In 2006, the National Center for Men brought a case in the US, Dubay v. Wells (dubbed by some "Roe v. Wade for men"), that argued that in the event of an unplanned pregnancy, when an unmarried woman informs a man that she is pregnant by him, he should have an opportunity to give up all paternity rights and responsibilities.	Supporters argue that this would allow the woman time to make an informed decision and give men the same reproductive rights as women .
noLabel	The player takes the role of an unnamed space marine who has been punitively posted to Mars after assaulting his commanding officer, who ordered his unit to fire upon civilians.	The Martian space marine base acts as security for the Union Aerospace Corporation (UAC), a multi-planetary conglomerate, which is performing secret experiments with teleportation by creating gateways between the two moons of Mars, Phobos and Deimos.
noLabel	Restrictions upon smoking in offices and other enclosed public places often result in smokers going outside to smoke, frequently congregating outside doorways.	Many jurisdictions that have restricted smoking in enclosed public places have extended provisions to cover areas within a fixed distance of entrances to buildings. 
noLabel	In early December German Finance Minister Peer Steinbrück indicated a lack of belief in a "Great Rescue Plan" and reluctance to spend more money addressing the crisis .	In March 2009, The European Union Presidency confirmed that the EU was at the time strongly resisting the US pressure to increase European budget deficits .
noLabel	It was held from May 18, 1899 and signed on July 29 of that year, and entered into force on September 4, 1900.	The Hague Convention of 1899 consisted of four main sections and three additional declarations (the final main section is for some reason identical to the first additional declaration):
noLabel	Cape Wind is the first offshore wind project in the U.S. to be granted a lease in federal waters after nearly 10 years of strenuous permitting.	The Cape Wind Associates first applied for a lease in 2001 to the US Army Corps of Engineers, who at the time were responsible for granting leases under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899.
noLabel	The FMS will first assess the admissibility of the asylum seeker's claim and, if found admissible, then examine the individual case on the merits (substantive examination).	Article 3.3 states that these determination must be based on an interview, completion of a questionnaire and examination of the credibility of the data provided.
noLabel	Online Gamers Anonymous, an American non-profit organization formed in 2002, is a twelve-step, self-help, support and recovery organization for gamers and their loved ones who are suffering from the adverse effects of excessive computer gaming.	The organization provides a variety of message boards, daily on-line chat meetings, a Saturday and Wednesday Skype meeting, and other tools for healing and support. 
noLabel	In Hardin's example, it is in each herder's interest to put each succeeding cow he acquires onto the land, even if the carrying capacity of the common is exceeded and it is temporarily or permanently damaged for all as a result.	The herder receives all of the benefits from an additional cow, while the damage to the common is shared by the entire group.
noLabel	Some geothermal steam sources entrain non-soluble minerals that must be removed from the steam before it is used for generation; this material must be properly disposed.	Any (closed cycle) steam power plant requires cooling water for condensers; diversion of cooling water from natural sources, and its increased temperature when returned to streams or lakes, may have a significant impact on local ecosystems. 
noLabel	States may use winner-take-all and allocate delegates by CD (congressional district), in which case different CDs may go to different candidates.	States may use winner-take-all allocation and allocate all delegates at large, in which case the state delegation as a whole is winner-take-all. 
noLabel	The advent of various search engines and the use of data mining created a capability for data about individuals to be collected and combined from a wide variety of sources very easily .	The FTC has provided a set of guidelines that represent widely-accepted concepts concerning fair information practices in an electronic marketplace called the Fair Information Practice Principles. 
noLabel	On July 26, Southside politicians attempted to force a vote through the Gray Commission which endorsed the Stanley plan (as redrafted by Almond), but the vote failed .	The commission did vote, however, to have Mays draft legislation to implement the proposals contained in the Gray Commission report as well as the governor's recommendations . 
noLabel	The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament (CND) is an anti-nuclear organisation that advocates unilateral nuclear disarmament by the United Kingdom, international nuclear disarmament and tighter international arms regulation through agreements such as the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.	It opposes military action that may result in the use of nuclear, chemical or biological weapons and the building of nuclear power stations in the UK. 
noLabel	At one end it is virtually indistinguishable from forced emigration and population exchange while at the other it merges with deportation and genocide.	At the most general level, however, ethnic cleansing can be understood as the expulsion of a population from a given territory . 
noLabel	Under the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees of 1951, a refugee is more narrowly defined (in Article 1A) as a person who "owing to a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group, or political opinion, is outside the country of his nationality, and is unable to or, owing to such fear, is unwilling to avail himself of the protection of that country" .	The concept of a refugee was expanded by the Convention's 1967 Protocol and by regional conventions in Africa and Latin America to include persons who had fled war or other violence in their home country.
noLabel	Norman Finkelstein and Steven Zipperstein (professor of Jewish Culture and History at Stanford University) suggest that criticism of Israel is sometimes inappropriately considered to be anti-Semitism due to an inclination to perceive Jews as victims.	Zipperstein suggests that the common attitude of seeing Jews as victims is sometimes implicitly transferred to the perception of Israel as a victim; while Finkelstein suggests that the depiction of Israel as a victim (as a "Jew among nations") is a deliberate ploy to stifle criticism of Israel. 
noLabel	Pollution may result from mine sludge and affect the functioning of the river system at a time when soils are blown away due to exposure and have a significant impact on aquatic populations further implicated by dam building in the region.	Dams build in areas of previously inhabited forest may have a profound impact on migrating fish and ecological life and leave the plains prone to flooding and leaching.
noLabel	The problem with fascism and communism, however, is not that they are too critical of religion; the problem is that they are too much like religions.	Such regimes are dogmatic to the core and generally give rise to personality cults that are indistinguishable from cults of religious hero worship.
noLabel	The 1996 proposal was appraised by a further mission, carried out in September 1999, made up of Dr. Alastair White (anthropologist & socioeconomist) and Torsten Mark Kowal (rural development forester and climate/environmental scientist), working for LTS Consultants, Scotland, UK.	They reported on the ongoing feasibility of the Project as designed in 1996 through: (i) fact-finding to identify substantive changes in the socio-economic and political context; (ii) analysis of the logic and applicability of the original approach; (iii) appraisal of the probability of fulfilment of basic conditions, identified in 1996 as prerequisites for successful project implementation.
noLabel	The largest airports include Stockholm-Arlanda Airport (16.1 million passengers in 2009) north of Stockholm, Gothenburg-Landvetter Airport (4.3 million passengers in 2008), and Stockholm-Skavsta Airport (2.0 million passengers).	Sweden hosts the two largest port companies in Scandinavia, Port of Göteborg AB (Gothenburg) and the transnational company Copenhagen Malmö Port AB.
noLabel	Of the 20 largest economies, only six spent less per citizen: South Korea ($4557), Brazil ($2813), Russia ($2458), China ($1010), and India ($$226).	Of the 13 that spent more, Norway and Sweden top the list with per citizen spending of $40908 and $26760 respectively .
noLabel	Athletes with abnormal blood values may be included in out-of-competition dope tests; they also receive warnings that they will be targeted.In January 1999, cycling was the first sport to bring in a system of obligatory medical monitoring for professional athletes to detect abnormalities in their health due to riding 35,000km a year, using medicines or drugs.	It also helps in screening and detecting anomalies which could lead to a sudden cardiac death, as the IOC pointed out in its recommendations of December 2004.In 2000, we introduced the "health booklet", which obliges professional cyclists to write down all medicines they use which may contain products on the banned list and that can be used only under certain conditions (for example: beta-mimetics, corticosteroids).
noLabel	In the 2002 New Hampshire Senate election phone jamming scandal, Republican officials attempted to reduce the number of Democratic voters by paying professional telemarketers in Idaho to make repeated hang-up calls to the telephone numbers used by the Democratic Party's ride-to-the-polls phone lines on election day.	By tying up the lines, voters seeking rides from the Democratic Party would have more difficulty reaching the party to ask for transportation to and from their polling places .
noLabel	The originally secret 6 volume U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey reports on Hiroshima and Nagasaki disclose that there had been no significant rain for 3 weeks prior to the Hiroshima bombing, and for 10 days prior to the Nagasaki bombing, except for one light shower on August 5 .	The May 1947 U.S. Strategic Bombing Survey report on Hiroshima lists all the factors that contributed to the firestorm on pages 4–6: "Six persons who had been in reinforced-concrete buildings within 3,200 feet of air zero stated that black cotton black-out curtains were ignited by flash heat.. A large proportion of over 1,000 persons questioned was, however, in agreement that a great majority of the original fires were started by debris falling on kitchen charcoal fires ..
noLabel	The first tests for athletes were at the 1966 European Championships and two years later the IOC implemented their first drug tests at both the Summer and Winter Olympics.	Anabolic steroids became prevalent during the 1970s and after a method of detection was found they were added to the IOC's prohibited substances list in 1976. 
noLabel	This left libel laws, based upon the traditional common law of defamation inherited from the English legal system, mixed across the states.	The 1964 case New York Times Co. v. Sullivan, however, dramatically altered the nature of libel law in the United States by elevating the fault element for public officials to actual malice—that is, public figures could win a libel suit only if they could demonstrate the publisher's "knowledge that the information was false" or that the information was published "with reckless disregard of whether it was false or not".
noLabel	In 2006, Hutchison received more campaign contributions from members of large oil and gas corporations than any other member of Congress .	In 2005, Hutchison voted against prohibiting oil leasing in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and has supported legislation promoting drilling in the refuge in 2002 and 2003.
noLabel	Catholic women became heavily involved in establishing hospices to care for AIDS patients, as with the Sisters of Charity who established Australia's first AIDS clinic at St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney .	The impact of the disease had been largely controlled in the Developed World by the turn of the century, but continued to spread in the Developing World, where the church remains active in patient care. 
noLabel	Another Gallup poll, of over 26,500 Europeans, conducted in December 2008, found that "a majority of EU citizens support smoking bans in public places, such as offices, restaurants and bars."	The poll further found that "support for workplace smoking restrictions is slightly higher than support for such restrictions in restaurants (84% vs. 79%).
noLabel	The agenda-setting process is an almost unavoidable part of news gathering by the large organizations which make up much of the mass media.	(Just four main news agencies&nbsp;— AP, UPI, Reuters and Agence-France-Presse&nbsp;— claim together to provide 90% of the total news output of the world’s press, radio and television.)
noLabel	The new rules for Commonwealth citizens meant that those determined to settle in the UK, but who no longer qualified, had to find new ways of achieving this.	Commonwealth governments had warned that the new restrictions would create a black market in forged documentation and they were proven correct.
noLabel	Academic jobs have been traditionally viewed by many intellectuals as desirable, because of the autonomy and intellectual freedom they allow (especially because of the tenure system), despite their low pay compared to other professions requiring extensive education.	And until the mid-1970s, when federal expenditures for higher education fell sharply, there were routinely more tenure-track jobs than Ph.D. graduates. 
noLabel	From some anarchist points of view, the validity of property depends on whether the "property right" requires enforcement by the state.	Different forms of "property" require different amounts of enforcement: intellectual property requires a great deal of state intervention to enforce, ownership of distant physical property requires quite a lot, ownership of carried objects requires very little, while ownership of one's own body requires absolutely no state intervention. 
noLabel	In concurring opinions, O'Connor refused to reconsider Roe, and Justice Antonin Scalia criticized the Court and O'Connor for not overruling Roe .	Blackmun – author of the Roe opinion – stated in his dissent that White, Kennedy and Rehnquist were "callous" and "deceptive," that they deserved to be charged with "cowardice and illegitimacy," and that their plurality opinion "foments disregard for the law.
noLabel	The Pope considered that allowing the Tridentine Mass to those who request it was a means to prevent or heal schism, stating that, on occasions in past history, "not enough was done by the Church’s leaders to maintain or regain reconciliation and unity" and that this "imposes an obligation on us today: to make every effort to enable for all those who truly desire unity to remain in that unity or to attain it anew.	" Many feel the decree aimed at ending the schism between the Holy See and traditionalist groups such as the Society of St. Pius X (SSPX).
noLabel	President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva iterated that it is “Brazil that is in charge of looking after the Amazon.” In 2006 Brazil proposed a direct finance route to deal with the Reduced Emissions from Deforestation and Degradation in Developing Countries, or REDD, issue, recognizing that deforestation contributes to 20 percent of the world’s greenhouse gas emissions.	The competing proposal for the REDD issue is a carbon emission credit system, where reduced deforestation would receive “marketable emissions credits”.
noLabel	Another version of demographic transition is proposed by anthropologist Virginia Abernethy in her book Population Politics, where she claims that the demographic transition occurs primarily in nations where women enjoy a special status (see Fertility-opportunity theory).	In strongly patriarchal nations, where she claims women enjoy few special rights, a high standard of living tends to result in population growth. 
noLabel	Alan Marshall's category of ecologic extension places emphasis not on human rights but on the recognition of the fundamental interdependence of all biological (and some abiological) entities and their essential diversity.	Whereas Libertarian Extension can be thought of as flowing from a political reflection of the natural world, Ecologic Extension is best thought of as a scientific reflection of the natural world.
noLabel	He failed to qualify for the 1991 World Championships in Tokyo but made the Canadian Olympic team again in 1992 in Barcelona, Spain after finishing second at the Canadian Olympic trials to Bruny Surin .	He missed the 100 metre finals at the Olympics however, finishing last in his semi-final heat after stumbling out of the blocks. 
noLabel	Until last week, when bicycle racers briefly disrupted the Tour de France as a protest against what they claimed was a witch hunt, athletes have never so publicly and boldly stood up to drug testing.	One knee-jerk reaction to the slowdown in the Alps was that the inmates were taking over the asylum, another that the so-called athletes' revolt had begun again after 30 years of simmering.
noLabel	The word virgin comes via Old French virgine from the root form of Latin , genitive , meaning literally "maiden" or "virgin"—a sexually intact young woman or "sexually inexperienced woman".	As in Latin, the English word is also often used with wider reference, by relaxing the age, gender or sexual criteria .
noLabel	Such countries would not have the political will or ability to safeguard attempts at devices being transferred to a third party.	Not being deterred by self-annihilation, terrorism groups could push forth their own nuclear agendas or be used as shadow fronts to carry out the attack plans by mentioned unstable governments.
noLabel	Intact America is a registered non-governmental organization (NGO) that was created in 2008 in order to advance the view that the circumcision of non-consenting minors is unethical and medically unnecessary .	They also claim that circumcision reduces sexual sensation in males and that it is a violation of modern bio-ethical standards to forcibly remove erogenous tissue from children .
noLabel	Some say that human growth hormone will build muscle mass through raised insulin-like growth factors levels leading to heightened protein synthesis without any side effects while other researchers argue that there have been no such findings on young healthy adults .	The second argument is more supported by research discoveries that HGH affects muscle protein synthesis no differently than a placebo does .
noLabel	Some lobbyists give their own money: Cassidy reportedly donated a million dollars on one project, according to one report, which noted that Cassidy's firm received "many times that much in fees from their clients" paid in monthly retainers .	And their clients, in turn, had received "hundreds of millions in earmarked appropriations" and benefits worth "hundreds of millions more" . 
noLabel	Proponents of the school of Mimamsa, which is based on rituals and orthopraxy, decided that the evidence allegedly proving the existence of God was insufficient.	They argue that there was no need to postulate a maker for the world, just as there was no need for an author to compose the Vedas or a God to validate the rituals .
noLabel	In Dunn's work, Privatizing Poland, she argues that the expansion of the multinational corporation, Gerber, into Poland in the 1990s imposed Western, neoliberal governmentality, ideologies, and epistemologies upon the post-soviet persons hired .	Cultural conflicts occurred most notably the company's inherent individualistic policies, such as promoting competition among workers rather than cooperation, and in its strong opposition to what the company owners claimed was bribery . 
noLabel	Until recently, the island's forests had not experienced the levels of intense logging seen in countries like Malaysia or Indonesia due to its smaller trees, challenging terrain, and national policies favoring locally controlled, small-scale operations.	Forestry laws have been in place since at least the 1960s, and commercial logging has been regulated by the state .
noLabel	According to Le Monde diplomatique, "tubal ligation festivals" were organized through program publicity campaigns, held in the pueblos jóvenes (in English: shantytowns).	In 1996 there were, according to official statistics, 81,762 tubal ligations performed on women, with a peak being reached the following year, with 109,689 ligatures, then only 25,995 in 1998 . 
noLabel	Students from forms 1 until 3 are referred as lower secondary students meanwhile students of forms 4 until 6 are called upper secondary students.	After completing Form Five, the students have a choice of entering Form Six (Tingkatan Enam) before proceeding to further their studies elsewhere. 
noLabel	These are serious figures for such a small country, roughly equivalent to 50,000 dead and 300,000 wounded in the United States over five years.	Such losses generated immense public pressure from the Israeli public for a forceful response, and ramped up targeted killings were one such outcome .
noLabel	There is also a philosophical difference between the craft unionism of many AFL-type unions, and the industrial unionism of organizations such as the Industrial Workers of the World.	Industrial unionists decry a practice that they call "union scabbing," in which craft unionists are required by the no-strike clause in their contracts to cross the picket lines of other unions . 
noLabel	At the same time, elite scientists are more likely than less established ones to be sought out as referees, particularly by high-prestige journals or publishers.	As a result, it has been argued, ideas that harmonize with the elites are more likely to see print and to appear in premier journals than are iconoclastic or revolutionary ones, which accords with Thomas Kuhn's well-known observations regarding scientific revolutions. 
noLabel	Education and training of public health professionals is available throughout the world in Medical Schools, Veterinary Schools, Schools of Nursing, Schools of Public Health, and Schools of Public Affairs.	The training typically requires a university degree with a focus on core disciplines of biostatistics, epidemiology, health services administration, health policy, health education, behavioral science and environmental health .
noLabel	Some theorists argue that lotteries facilitate a higher degree of inequality than a society should have to maximize its progress by giving the masses false hope, which reduces pressure on political leaders to remedy the inequality.	Rather than traditional religion, the pursuit of imaginary future wealth, via lottery play, is seen as an opium of the people Marx spoke of.
noLabel	Finally, critics argue that a team can win a weak conference and be awarded an automatic berth over at-large teams that are perceived to be more deserving.	Most of this criticism has centered around the Big East after losing Miami, Virginia Tech, and Boston College to the ACC.
noLabel	The one side of the work of redemption consists herein, that Christ as head of humanity imparts ordo, perfectio, and virtus to his members.	He is the teacher and example of humanity; his whole life and suffering as well as his work after he is exalted serve this end.
noLabel	On November 21, 2005, an Indian NGO activist Junned Khan, with the help of the Labour Department and NGO Pratham mounted the country's biggest ever raid for child labour rescue in the Eastern part of New Delhi, the capital of India.	The process resulted in rescue of 480 children from over 100 illegal embroidery factories operating in the crowded slum area of Seelampur.
noLabel	The monarchy of Madagascar, known as the Merina Kingdom, came to an end in 1897 when France made it a colony and overthrew Queen Ranavalona III.	In Brazil, monarchy was abolished in 1889, when Emperor Pedro II was overthrown by a republican military coup (the status of the republic was fully confirmed by a plebiscite in 1993 that resulted in 86,6% of the votes to the republican government).
noLabel	Some regard targeted killings as extrajudicial killing, and argue that it is a rejection of the rule of law and due process .	They defend that in international law assassination was outlawed in both the 1937 convention of for the Prevention and Repression of Terrorism and the 1973 New York convention .
noLabel	The PGA Tour does not have a testing program beyond its commissioner's authority to require a test of any player believed to be using performance-enhancing drugs.	While golf is a game in which players call penalties on themselves, several professional golfers have voiced concerns about drugs one day infiltrating the game in the wake of longer golf courses and escalating purses.
noLabel	Atomic materialist Epicurus (c. 341–270 BCE) disputed many religious doctrines, including the existence of an afterlife or a personal deity; he considered the soul purely material and mortal.	While Epicureanism did not rule out the existence of gods, he believed that if they did exist, they were unconcerned with humanity . 
noLabel	After about two years of EU3-led diplomatic efforts and Iran temporarily suspending its enrichment program, the IAEA Board of Governors, acting under Article XII.C of the IAEA Statute, found in a rare non-consensus decision with 12 abstentions that these failures constituted non-compliance with the IAEA safeguards agreement .	This was reported to the UN Security Council in 2006, after which the Security Council passed a resolution demanding that Iran suspend its enrichment .
noLabel	to ensure that offenders are properly identified, that the degree of their guilt is as accurately ascertained as possible, and that they are punished appropriately.	To prevent and respond to violence, the criminal justice approach relies primarily on deterrence, incarceration and the punishment and rehabilitation of perpetrators . 
noLabel	Spartan women rarely married before the age of 20, and unlike Athenian women who wore heavy, concealing clothes and were rarely seen outside the house, Spartan women wore short dresses and went where they pleased.	Girls as well as boys received an education, and young women as well as young men may have participated in the Gymnopaedia ("Festival of Nude Youths") . 
noLabel	Since the plant was to be in the future Soviet zone of occupation and the Russian troops would get there before the Allies, General Leslie Groves, commander of the Manhattan Project, recommended to General George Marshall that the plant be destroyed by aerial bombardment, in order to deny its uranium production equipment to the Russians.	On 15 March 1945, 612 B-17 Flying Fortress bombers of the Eighth Air Force dropped 1,506 tons of high-explosive and 178 tons of incendiary bombs on the plant.
noLabel	The original conceptualization proffered by Canan and Pring emphasized the right to petition as protected in the United States under the US Constitution's specific protection in the First Amendment's fifth clause.	It is still definitional: SLAPPs refer to civil lawsuits filed against those who have communicated to government officialdom (in its entire constitutional apparatus).
noLabel	" If significant reforms are not undertaken, benefits under entitlement programs will exceed government income by over $40&nbsp;trillion over the next 75 years .	According to the GAO, this will cause debt ratios relative to GDP to double by 2040 and double again by 2060, reaching 600 percent by 2080 . 
noLabel	Verity Burgmann asserts in Revolutionary industrial unionism that the IWW in Australia provided an alternate form of labour organising, to be contrasted with the Laborism of the Australian Labor Party and the Bolshevik Communism of the Communist Party of Australia.	Revolutionary industrial unionism, for Burgmann, was much like revolutionary syndicalism, but focused much more strongly on the centralised, industrial, nature of unionism.
noLabel	In November 2008, it was reported that the US State Department had opened an Office of Iranian Affairs (OIA) – overseen by Elizabeth Cheney, the daughter of Vice President Dick Cheney.	The U.S. partially defined the office's mission as "to promote a democratic transition in the Islamic republic" and to help "defeat" the Iranian regime .
noLabel	In comparison, a yearly underground ticket for a suburban commuter in London (where the average wage is higher than the national average ) costs £1,000-1,500, which, because of subsidies, do not cover financing for the rail or depreciation of the infrastructure.	In the Euro-15, rail transit requires $69 billion euro in subsidies while road transportation nets $107 billion euro in additional taxes . 
noLabel	Although casinos have proven successful for both the tribes and the surrounding regions, state residents may oppose construction of Indian casinos, especially if they have competing projects.	For example, in November 2003, the state of Maine voted against a $650 million casino project proposed by the Penobscots and Passamaquoddies.
noLabel	His suggestion that the atmosphere would be heated and that the surface of the planet would cool appeared in The Herald of the Academy of Sciences in September 1983 .	Upon learning of the TTAPS scenarios, Vladimir Alexandrov and G. I. Stenchikov soon published a report on the climatic consequences of nuclear war based on simulations with a two-level global circulation model, which produced results consistent with the TTAPS findings .
noLabel	The predominant approach to theorizing about deterrence has entailed the use of rational choice and game-theoretic models of decision making (see game theory).	Deterrence theorists have consistently argued that deterrence success is more likely if a defending state's deterrent threat is credible to an attacking state.
noLabel	The general expectation was that, with President Barack Obama having the advantage of incumbency and being the only viable candidate running, the race would be merely pro forma.	The last time an incumbent was seriously challenged was during the 1980 Democratic primaries when Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts carried 12 states while running against President Jimmy Carter. 
noLabel	Another reason for why the Spiral of Silence theory has less of an effect online could be that studies do not acknowledge whether the person is more likely to speak out against dominant views offline as well .	The person might have characteristics that make him comfortable speaking out against dominant views offline, which make them just as comfortable speaking out in an online setting.
noLabel	Pope Leo X first granted the title "Defender of the Faith" to King Henry VIII in 1521, rewarding him for his support of the Papacy during the early years of the Protestant Reformation, particularly for his book the Defence of the Seven Sacraments .	After Henry broke from the Roman Church, Pope Paul III revoked the grant, but Parliament passed a law authorising its continued use . 
noLabel	In June 2007, 22-year-old Alejandro Garcia from Texas shot dead his cousin after arguing over whose turn it was to play the game Scarface: The World Is Yours.	He pleaded guilty for murder at his trial on April 6, 2011, and will serve 15 to 30 years in prison .
noLabel	Military expert told Goldstone team that there is no proof that Dense Inert Metal Explosive (DIME) rounds were used, but he is of view that some weapons systems used in the conflict had some sort of DIME component, citing evidence of tungsten, iron, and sulfur in samples analyzed in a forensic lab.	He made it clear the intent of Israel if it did indeed use these weapons was to reduce civilian casualties; however, those within the area of dispersal will experience catastrophic injuries, possibly leading to multiple amputations . 
noLabel	There was nothing new in this, Chinese trafficking had been noted before World War 1, but the scale of the business was growing.	The HAC discussed what they described as the "pull factor", what it was that made Britain an attractive destination relative to other countries and what might be done to reduce this. 
noLabel	According to Stirner, the only limitation on the rights of the individual is their power to obtain what they desire, without regard for God, state, or morality .	To Stirner, rights were spooks in the mind, and he held that society does not exist but "the individuals are its reality" .
noLabel	In Europe, young men proceeded to university when they had completed their study of the trivium–the preparatory arts of grammar, rhetoric and dialectic or logic–and the quadrivium: arithmetic, geometry, music, and astronomy.	(See Degrees of the University of Oxford for the history of how the trivium and quadrivium developed in relation to degrees, especially in anglophone universities). 
noLabel	Chaim Hezekiah Medini claimed the practice to be Halacha l'Moshe m'Sinai and elaborates on what prompted Moses Sofer to give the above ruling: .	He tells the story that a student of Moses Sofer, Lazar Horowitz, author of Yad Elazer and Chief Rabbi of Vienna at the time, needed the ruling because of a governmental attempt to ban circumcision completely if it included metztitzah b'peh.
noLabel	The appropriation amount steadily increased from 1978 to 2001, but has since declined due to pressures placed on the Japanese government (see Opposition below).	The 2008 Japanese defense budget allocated ¥146.3 billion for labor costs, ¥36.2 billion for FIP, ¥25.3 billion for utilities, ¥500 million for training relocation, for a total of ¥208.3 billion.
noLabel	Democracy is an egalitarian form of government in which all the citizens of a nation together determine public policy, the laws and the actions of their state, requiring that all citizens (meeting certain qualifications) have an equal opportunity to express their opinion.	In practise, "democracy" is the extent to which a given system approximates this ideal, and a given political system is referred to as "a democracy" if it allows a certain approximation to ideal democracy.
noLabel	But most plants cannot survive being covered by water for that length of time, a boat of that magnitude could not have been built by wood, and there would be no way for two of every animal to survive on that ship and migrate back to their place of origin (such as penguins).	So one must choose between accepting the story on faith and rejecting reason, or rejecting the story by reason and thus rejecting faith. 
noLabel	A scheme proposed at the Imperial Conference of 1887 would have seen colonies taxed for the protection of the Royal Navy.	The Australian delegates were highly critical of the proposal, echoing the rallying cry of the American revolution "No taxation without representation" . 
noLabel	Post-war Britain was the stage for a tower block building ‘boom’; from the 1950s to the late 1970s there was a dramatic increase in tower block construction.	During this time, local authorities desired to impress their voters by building futuristic and imposing tower blocks, which would signify post-war progress .
noLabel	Objectivism is a system of philosophy created by philosopher and novelist Ayn Rand (1905–1982) that holds: reality exists independent of consciousness; human beings gain knowledge rationally from perception through the process of concept formation and inductive and deductive logic; the moral purpose of one's life is the pursuit of one's own happiness or rational self-interest.	Rand thinks the only social system consistent with this morality is full respect for individual rights, embodied in pure laissez faire capitalism; and the role of art in human life is to transform man's widest metaphysical ideas, by selective reproduction of reality, into a physical form—a work of art—that he can comprehend and to which he can respond emotionally.
noLabel	In 1989 Folbre was awarded a National Science Foundation grant to study Women’s Work and Women’s Households in Western Massachusetts between 1880-1910.	She was awarded a five- year fellowship with the MacArthur Foundation in 1998, and the Leontief Prize of the Global Development and Environment Institute at Tufts University in 2004.
noLabel	A priesthood can gain control or even dominance, for example Pharaoh Echnaton's reforms were reversed by the Amun-priesthood after his death.	Often there is no clear model, so over time power can be disputed, as between the Pope and Holy Roman emperor in the Investiture conflict, as the temporal power seeks to guarantee its legitimacy, including a formal ceremony during the coronation (such as unction; often crucial for popular support), by controlling key nominations in the clergy. 
noLabel	The cost may be higher, with another study putting it as high as $41 per pack, most of which however is on the individual and his/her family .	This is how one author of that study puts it when he explains the very low cost for others: "The reason the number is low is that for private pensions, Social Security, and Medicare — the biggest factors in calculating costs to society — smoking actually saves money.
noLabel	After an initial HIV screening and a medical exam, eligible men were randomly assigned either to receive circumcision immediately or to wait two years before circumcision.	All participants were closely followed for two years to collect information about their health, sexual activity, and their and their partners’ attitudes about circumcision; to counsel participants in HIV prevention and safe sex practices; and to check the HIV status of the volunteer.
noLabel	It is possible to fish the stock down further to, say, 15% of the pre-harvest biomass, and then adjust the harvest rate so the biomass remains at that level.	In this case, the fishery is sustainable, but is now overexploited, because the stock has been run down to the point where the sustainable yield is less than it could be. 
noLabel	Commoditization of emotion theory focuses on the effects of marketized care work on the care workers’ personal experiences and individual well-being.	The commoditization of emotion theory asserts that many jobs in the new service economy require workers to act emotions they do not really feel and that this process is harmful to workers .
noLabel	The military government stated its intention to crack down on these human rights activists, according to an 23 April 2007, report in the country's official press.	The announcement, which comprised a full page of the official newspaper, followed calls by human rights advocacy groups, including London-based Amnesty International, for authorities to investigate recent violent attacks on rights activists in the country. 
noLabel	The United States and Western European governments actively encouraged and participated in Iran's nuclear program, through the Atoms for Peace program, and under the Iranian monarchy of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Iran signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty on 1 July 1968 and ratified the treaty on 2 February 1970 .	The monarchy was replaced by the Islamic republic in 1979, but Iran remains legally bound to the NPT and to state its support for the treaty. 
noLabel	Catholics for Choice stated in 1998 that 96% of U.S. Catholic women had used contraceptives at some point in their lives and that 72% of Catholics believed that one could be a good Catholic without obeying the Church's teaching on birth control .	According to a nationwide poll of 2,242 U.S. adults surveyed online in September 2005 by Harris Interactive, 90% of Catholics supported the use of birth control/contraceptives . 
noLabel	The Founding Fathers of the United States rarely praised and often criticized democracy, which in their time tended to specifically mean direct democracy; James Madison argued, especially in The Federalist No.	10, that what distinguished a democracy from a republic was that the former became weaker as it got larger and suffered more violently from the effects of faction, whereas a republic could get stronger as it got larger and combats faction by its very structure. 
noLabel	BVI measures where a person’s weight and the fat are located on the body, rather than total weight or total fat content and places emphasis on the weight carried around the abdomen, commonly known as central obesity.	There has been an acceptance in recent years that abdominal fat and weight around the abdomen constitute a greater health risk .
noLabel	In the 1970s, with the growth of the Trans Amazonian highway, INCRA established schemes to attract hundreds of thousands of potential farmers westward into the Amazon and exploit the forest for cattle ranches.	Between 1966 and 1975 Amazon land values grew at a rate of 100% per year as the government offered subsidies to reform the land; throughout the 1970s and 1980s, farmers rushed to claim land and quickly convert areas to farming and make a profit due to the improved transportation network and the high prices of beef .
noLabel	Deterrence is often directed against state leaders who have specific territorial goals that they seek to attain either by seizing disputed territory in a limited military attack or by occupying disputed territory after the decisive defeat of the adversary's armed forces.	In either case, the strategic orientation of potential attacking states is generally short term and driven by concerns about military cost and effectiveness.
noLabel	For example, many American cultural hallmarks and distinctions such as American film and American television could actually be more accurately described as collaborations between the two countries or representative of Western culture, since many of these culturally-representative projects often involve significant Canadian contributions.	Hundreds of so-called American films, cartoons, musicians, videogames, music videos and commercials are actually created in both parts of Canada and the US, with significant Canadian casts, Canadian production houses and hundreds of Canadian technical workers.
noLabel	It was renamed the University of Pennsylvania in 1791. the Dutch Reform Church in 1766 set up Queen's College in New Jersey, which later became Rutgers University.	Dartmouth College, chartered in 1769, grew out of school for Indians, and was moved to its present site in Hanover, New Hampshire, in 1770 . 
noLabel	A party cannot say that he seeks a re-hearing of the facts or that the factual conclusions reached by the Immigration Judge are wrong.	He can only seek reconsideration if the Immigration Judge has misdirected himself in law, failed to consider relevant material, considered irrelevant material, or erred in his fact-finding to the extent that the findings are irrational and therefore amount to an error of law. 
noLabel	In cases were couples may not want to have children just yet and plan with time family planning programs help alot.	Federal family planning programs reduced childbearing among poor women by as much as 29 percent, according to a University of Michigan study .
noLabel	In Lahore both Swedish and Danish flags were burned, although the Norwegian News Agency reports that the Norwegian flag was burned mistakenly in the belief that it was the Danish .	A lawyer involved in the action in the Lahore court, Rai Bashir, told The Daily Telegraph, "There are so many insults to the Prophet on the internet and that's why we felt we had to bring this case.
noLabel	An initial survey conducted by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) estimates that 14,000 homes, 68 government buildings, and 31 non-governmental organization offices (NGOs) were either totally or partially damaged, creating about 600,000 tonnes of concrete rubble needing to be removed .	Since 2007, construction material have not permitted entry into Gaza, adversely affecting UN projects, in particular UNRWA and UNDP which were forced to suspend more than $100 million in construction projects due to lack of materials . 
noLabel	It was, on the contrary, the device to secure for the whole of mankind the maximum of benefits it can derive from it.	Henceforth no man-made institutions should prevent a man from attaining that station in which he can best serve his fellow citizens. 
noLabel	Opponents claim that ever since Milton Friedman suggested the concept during the aftermath of Brown v. Board of Education, vouchers have functioned to increase racial and economic discrimination in schools, beginning in the late 1950s with the appearance of segregation academies .	Critics also contend that since approximately four out of five US private schools are religious, voucher and charter systems violate the Constitution .
noLabel	The most recent poll, a survey of 1000 readers of The Sun-Herald and The Sydney Morning Herald, published in The Sydney Morning Herald on 21 November 2010, found 68% of respondents were in favour of Australia becoming a republic, while 25% said it should not.	More than half the respondents, 56%, said Australia should become a republic as soon as possible while 31% said it should happen after the Queen dies . 
noLabel	Throngs of dreadlocked Italians were smoking joints, drinking beer, grooving to the rhythms of Bob Marley, Steel Pulse and other reggae icons.	Most striking was how comfortable these Italians seemed in their appropriated shoes, adopting a foreign culture and somehow making it theirs.
noLabel	It is estimated that between 165,000 - 200,000 Sahrawis – people from the disputed territory of Western Sahara – have lived in five large refugee camps near Tindouf in the Algerian part of the Sahara Desert since 1975 .	The UNHCR and WFP are presently engaged in supporting what they describe as the "90,000 most vulnerable" refugees, giving no estimate for total refugee numbers .
noLabel	Arriving as it did at during a time of social upheaval, Porter's work had a marked influence on Canadian social policy.	The view of Canada as a mosaic of cultures became the basis for the Trudeau government's multiculturalism policies in the early 1970s. 
noLabel	This reduced the combined power of these two parties from 236 to 193 seats, which is still majority for the 300-seat parliament of Greece .	The vote was a major precondition for the EU and IMF to jointly release the funds, which are supposed to cover all financial needs in 2012 and 2013, with the hope that Greece can start lending again at the private capital markets in 2014 . 
noLabel	Mutualism is an anarchist school of thought which can be traced to the writings of Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, who envisioned a society where each person might possess a means of production, either individually or collectively, with trade representing equivalent amounts of labor in the free market .	Integral to the scheme was the establishment of a mutual-credit bank which would lend to producers at a minimal interest rate only high enough to cover the costs of administration .
noLabel	The head of the fetus contracts at this point and allows the fetus to be more easily removed from the womb.	[1] The main justifications for the use of D&X are: that the fetus is dead; that continued pregnancy will endanger the life of the mother; that continued pregnancy will adversely affect the mother’s health; that the fetus is so malformed that it will never gain consciousness after birth.
noLabel	The services provided at publicly funded clinics saved the federal and state governments an estimated $5.1 billion in 2008 in short term medical costs .	Nationally, every $1.00 invested in helping women avoid unintended pregnancy saved $3.74 in Medicaid expenditures that otherwise would have been needed . 
noLabel	Carl Sagan, in his last book The Demon-Haunted World: Science as a Candle in the Dark, presented his case for the miraculous sightings of religious figures in the past and the modern sightings of UFOs coming from the same mental disorder.	According to Professor Vilayanur S. Ramachandran, "It's possible that many great religious leaders had temporal lobe seizures and this predisposes them to having visions, having mystical experiences.
noLabel	On 16 September 2006 in Havana, Cuba, all of the 118 Non-Aligned Movement member countries, at the summit level, declared supporting Iran's nuclear program for civilian purposes in their final written statement .	That is a clear majority of the 192 countries comprising the entire United Nations, which comprise 55% of the world population. 
noLabel	UNHCR's spokesman in Geneva, Adrian Edwards, said in September 2010 that "[w]e strongly urge European governments to provide Iraqis with protection until the situation in their areas of origin in Iraq allows for safe and voluntary returns.	In this critical time of transition, we also encourage all efforts to develop conditions in Iraq that are conducive to sustainable and voluntary return" . 
noLabel	In the failed motion to proceed to consider the legislation, 50 Democrats voted in favor of opening debate on the legislation and 47 Republican Senators, joined by 3 Democratic Senators (Joseph Lieberman, Ben Nelson, and Mark Pryor) voted no .	The $35 billion bill providing funding to state governments for public school teachers, police and firefighters would've been paid for with a 0.5% tax on incomes in excess of $1 million annually, beginning January 1, 2013 . 
noLabel	Despite the public's enthusiasm, this was an era of far-reaching regulation of the sport, often with the stated goal of outright prohibition.	In 1900, the State of New York enacted the Lewis Law, banned prizefights except for those held in private athletic clubs between members.
noLabel	The working environment for the Immigration Service differed greatly dependent on whether the work was performed at a port of entry, or in an after-entry environment within the community.	All staff were, and are, governed by the overarching laws found within the various Immigration and Nationality Acts but the everyday application of the law at ports of entry is made through the application of the  – these are published rules that explain how the law is to be interpreted and applied. 
noLabel	Mises writers also lamented the demise of the International Music Score Library Project in the wake of a cease and desist letter .	The Independent Institute's collection of research does not seem to provide much coverage of intellectual property debates; its book Winners, Losers and Microsoft approaches the issue of copyright owner monopoly power only indirectly, opining that barriers to entry for a new product can be overcome by offering a discount during an introductory period; the ability to design software to be compatible with competitors' products; potential coordination of customers in switching to a new standard; etc .
noLabel	Paul supports reopening investigation into the attacks to discover why the Federal Bureau of Investigation did not act on 70 internal field tips: "We had one FBI agent, I think sent dozens and dozens of memos to his superiors saying that there are people trying to fly airplanes but not land them, and nobody would pay any attention.	" He also advocates investigating why the various intelligence agencies could not collaborate on information to prevent the attacks while spending $40 billion per year .
noLabel	Diuretics, drugs that increase urine output to reduce excessive fluid in the system, may be used to treat high intracranial pressures, but may cause hypovolemia (insufficient blood volume) .	Hyperventilation (larger and/or faster breaths) reduces carbon dioxide levels and causes blood vessels to constrict; this decreases blood flow to the brain and reduces ICP, but it potentially causes ischemia and is, therefore, used only in the short term . 
noLabel	Any solution to the problem of deforestation in Nigeria must be an approach that incorporates and aggressively targets all aspects that are related to the problem.	Teach each should include areas of energy alternatives, improved technology, forestry management, economic production, agriculture and security of the locals that are dependent on the land.
noLabel	In addition, Brazil is currently the second-largest global producer of soybeans after the United States, mostly for livestock feed, and as prices for soybeans rise, the soy farmers are pushing northwards into forested areas of the Amazon.	As stated in Brazilian constitution, clearing land for crops or fields is considered an ‘effective use’ of land and is the beginning towards land ownership .
noLabel	Then on 26 August 1993, after the former GDR had disbanded itself to accede to the Federal Republic of Germany in 1990, the records were opened and the evidence was there that the Stasi, the GDR state secret police, supervised systematic doping of East German athletes from 1971 until reunification in 1990.	Doping existed in other countries, says expert Jean-Pierre de Mondenard, both communist and capitalist, but the difference with East Germany was that it was a state policy . 
noLabel	The structure and procedures evolved and by 2004, federal handling of refugee affairs was led by the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration (PRM) of the U.S. Department of State, working with the ORR at HHS.	Asylum claims are mainly the responsibility of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
noLabel	On August 2, 2005, a rocket apparently launched by Islamic Jihad killed a 6-year-old boy and his father in Beit Hanoun .	On December 26, 2008 a mortar aimed at Israel killed two Palestinian girls in the Gaza Strip, aged 5 and 12 . 
noLabel	From 2001 to 2007, Hutchison served as Chairwoman of the Senate Republican Conference (caucus), making her the fifth-ranking Republican in the Senate behind Majority Leader Bill Frist, Majority Whip Mitch McConnell and conference chairman Rick Santorum, and Policy Chairman Jon Kyl.	In 2007, Hutchison succeeded Jon Kyl as the Policy Chair for Senate Republicans, the fourth ranking leadership position in the Republican caucus behind Minority Leader McConnell, Minority Whip, and conference chairman Kyl. 
noLabel	Health units that conduct serosurveys rarely operate in remote rural communities, and the data collected also does not measure people who seek alternate healthcare.	Extrapolating national data from antenatal surveys relies on assumptions which may not hold across all regions and at different stages in an epidemic. 
noLabel	The proposal was supported by 67 of the then 192 member countries of the United Nations, including all EU member states and the United States.	An alternative statement opposing the proposal was initiated by Syria and signed by 57 member nations, including all 27 nations of the Arab League as well as Iran and North Korea .
noLabel	The MKI variant features several improvements over the basic K and MK variants and is classified as a 4.5 generation fighter .	Due to similar features and components, the MKI variant is often considered to be a customized Indian variant of the Sukhoi Su-35. 
noLabel	" The Jakarta Globe reported that several Muslim religious scholars in Indonesia were critical of Facebook in light of the protest movement .	Rohadi Abdul Fatah the Indonesia, Religious Affairs Ministry director of Islam and Shariah Law, announced that Facebook was to be considered haram (forbidden) according to Muslim law .
noLabel	This influence leads to political bargaining between the two remaining candidates and the parties and candidates who have been eliminated, sometimes resulting in the two successful candidates making policy concessions to the less successful ones.	Because it encourages concilliation and negotiation in these ways runoff voting is advocated, in various forms, by some supporters of deliberative democracy. 
noLabel	From the demographic perspective, the already existing demographic threat to the Jewish majority only worsens by the gradual increase of illegal immigrants.	According to Sofer, failing to stop the illegal immigration waves at an early stage will only lead to much larger waves of illegal immigration in the future . 
noLabel	Some research has also noted that in the mid-1990s a reverse began in the observed trends in the regions of Asia where originally the male/female ratios were high.	In line with the studies of Das Gupta described above, as income increases the bias in the sex ratio towards boys decreases. 
noLabel	The development of color lithography in the late 1870s allowed the companies to create attractive images to better present their products.	This led to the printing of pictures onto the cigarette cards, previously only used to stiffen the packaging but now turned into an early marketing concept .
noLabel	In May 2006, the illegal detention case of Khalid El-Masri was dismissed based on the privilege, which was invoked by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).	Khalid El-Masri alleged that he was falsely held by the CIA for several months (which the CIA acknowledges) and was beaten, drugged, and subjected to various other inhumane activity while in captivity.
noLabel	A second option is wooden matches but make sure the chemical head of the match has burned away and you are only placing the burning wooden match on your cigar.	Depending on the manufacturer the chemical head portion of the matchstick may contain one or more of the following: gelatin, paraffin wax, potassium chlorate, barium chlorate, glue, polyvinyl chlorides, phosphorus trisulfide, and clay.
noLabel	Passed with overwhelming backing, the tough new gun control rules were "hoped to prevent Europe from becoming a gun-friendly culture like the United States," in the words of the International Herald Tribune .	Certain countries such as the United Kingdom are unaffected as they maintain more stringent gun control laws than those effectively set as a minimum by the European Union. 
noLabel	Employment agencies may not discriminate when hiring or referring applicants, and labor organizations are also prohibited from basing membership or union classifications on race, color, religion, sex, or national origin .	The Pregnancy Discrimination Act amended Title VII in 1978, specifying that unlawful sex discrimination includes discrimination based on pregnancy, childbirth, and related medical conditions .
noLabel	In response to protests from Muslim groups, Jyllands-Posten published two open letters on its website, each of them in a Danish and an Arabic version, defending the right of the newspaper to publish the drawings but at the same time apologising for any offense the drawings may have caused .	The second letter, dated 30 January 2006, had a Danish version, dated 21:31 Danish time, an Arabic version, and an English version dated 21:44: .
noLabel	The same review charges that Sowell simply repackaged an earlier book of his, Preferential Policies: An International Perspective (1990), and "fobbed it off" as new material under a different title .	Michael Bérubé, writing for The Nation magazine, agreed with Sowell's arguments that affirmative action has gone far beyond what the Civil Rights Act of 1965 intended and that preferential benefits for ethnic groups without historical oppression in the United States are unjustified but criticized Sowell's association of affirmative action with unrest in the countries selected for the study and pointed out the United States has never implemented the racial preference systems of those foreign countries .
noLabel	Daniel Junqua, the vice-president of the French section of RWB (and also vice-president of the NGO Les Amis du Monde diplomatique), states that the NED's funding, which reaches an amount of €35,000, does not compromise RWB's impartiality .	RWB's Chinese website credits support from Taiwan Foundation for Democracy, a quasi-government organization funded by the ROC Ministry of Foreign Affairs . 
noLabel	Since the dissolution of the All-Palestine Government in 1959, under the excuse of the pan-Arabism, Egypt continued to occupy the Gaza Strip until 1967.	Egypt never annexed the Gaza Strip, but instead treated it as a controlled territory and administered it through a military governor .
noLabel	Electoral fusion is an arrangement where two or more political parties on a ballot list the same candidate, pooling the votes for that candidate.	Distinct from the process of electoral alliances in that the political parties remain separately listed on the ballot, the practice of electoral fusion in jurisdictions where it exists allows minor parties to influence election results and policy by offering to endorse or nominate a major party's candidate. 
noLabel	Sex-selection practices also occur among some South Asian immigrants in the United States: A study of the 2000 United States Census observed definite male bias in families of Chinese, Korean and Indian immigrants, which was getting increasingly stronger in families where first one or two children were female.	In those families where the first two children were girls, the sex ratio of the third child was observed to be 1.51:1 in favor of boys .
noLabel	In Scotland, the first degree studied is free and paid for by the Scottish government <"http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-15126753">; as a result of EU law, this means that students from other EU countries can study for free.	There is also a change of direction funding in which a student can change course or degree after a year without imposing financial penalties or having to pay extra <"http://www.saas.gov.uk/faqs_special_circumstances.htm">. 
noLabel	Free speech zones were commonly used by President George W Bush after the September 11, 2001 attacks and through the 2004 election.	Free speech zones were set up by the Secret Service, who scouted locations where the U.S. president was scheduled to speak, or pass through.
noLabel	As early as 1940, science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein wrote Solution Unsatisfactory in which he described a nuclear arms race between the United States and the Soviet Union.	In one episode, the US cabinet discusses the scenario of a Soviet surprise attack in which American cities would be destroyed, but the US armed forces would survive and launch a counter-attack.
noLabel	Harry Elmer Barnes, an American, was at one time a mainstream historian; he assumed a Holocaust-denial stance in the later years of his life .	Between World War I and World War II, Barnes became well known as an anti-war writer and a leader in the historical revisionism movement, where he had worked closely from 1924 onwards with Centre for the Study of the Causes of the War.
noLabel	For example, when the king or queen of a hereditary monarchy dies or abdicates, the crown is usually passed to the next generation, i.e., his or her child, typically in some order of seniority.	When that child dies, the crown is in turn passed to his or her child, or, if no child exists, a sister, brother, niece, nephew, cousin, or other relative.
noLabel	Justice Anthony Kennedy wrote for the Court that the respondents had failed to show that Congress lacked authority to ban this abortion procedure.	Chief Justice John Roberts, Justice Samuel Alito, Justice Clarence Thomas, and Justice Antonin Scalia agreed with the Court's judgment, joining Kennedy's opinion. 
noLabel	In October 2006, McCain said that he believed the former President Bill Clinton and his administration were to blame for the North Korea's weapons of mass destruction.	He said that the U.S. had "concluded an unenforceable and untransparent agreement", allowing North Korea to keep plutonium rods in a reactor .
noLabel	In 1983, Richard Stallman launched the GNU Project to write a complete operating system free from constraints on use of its source code.	Particular incidents that motivated this include a case where an annoying printer couldn't be fixed because the source code was withheld from users .
noLabel	Political upheaval and Communist insurrection put an end to the monarchies of Indochina after World War II: a short-lived attempt to leave a monarchical form of government in post-colonial South Vietnam came to naught in 1955, a military coup overthrew the kingless monarchy in Cambodia in 1970 and a Communist takeover ended the monarchy in Laos in 1975.	Cambodia's monarchy later saw an unexpected rebirth under an internationally-mediated peace settlement with former king Norodom Sihanouk being restored as a figurehead in 1993. 
noLabel	Dr. Clifford Young, who oversees federal relations for California State University San Bernardino, estimates that the school has received $60 million to $70 million for earmarked projects since it retained Copeland Lowery in late 1999.	Since hiring the firm, the university has paid the firm about $490,000, according to disclosure reports initially filed by Copeland Lowery; university records showed $702,500 paid .
noLabel	Though this deal fell apart for some time due to the Indians demanding an upgrade/improvement in some of its safety features, Russia's President Dmitry Medvedev on his official trip to New Delhi said that the deal was back on track and that "The talk is not about selling submarines into India's property, but about their rent by India's navy" .	However, unlike the earlier deal the modified deal states that India can only rent and not buy the subs, but defence experts state that the so-called lease agreement is only to divert international attention and that it would be eventually modified and India would inevitably keep the subs.
noLabel	However, IRV is usually excluded from discussions of STV, because STV was designed for multi-seat constituencies, redistributes votes from both the top (winners) and bottom (dropped candidates), and produces broadly proportional results (depending on the number of seats per constituency); none of which need apply to IRV.	Even so, some Irish observers mistakenly call IRV "proportional representation" based on the fact that the same ballot form is used to elect its president by IRV and parliamentary seats by STV.
noLabel	The organisation subsequently relocated to Geneva in 1960, and was succeeded in 1967 with the establishment of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) by treaty as an agency of the United Nations.	According to Lemley, it was only at this point that the term really began to be used in the United States (which had not been a party to the Berne Convention), and it did not enter popular usage until passage of the Bayh-Dole Act in 1980 . 
noLabel	Lemurs, the most well-known faunal group from the island, have been captured for the exotic pet trade as well as killed for food.	Even the most critically endangered species have been targeted, primarily to feed a growing demand for delicacy food in up-scale restaurants.
noLabel	Caring for others has sparked a lot of controversy as the market prices of items that are required for care increase and just as many care opportunities continue to be non-paid.	The costs are increasing and the relative rise of price for the services is not providing any substitutes; this is known as the Baumol Effect .
noLabel	At the same time, the government indicated that warheads "required to provide a necessary processing margin and for technical surveillance purposes" were not included in the "fewer than 200" figure .	However, as recently declassified archived documents on Chevaline make clear, the 15% excess (referred to by SIPRI as for spares) is normally intended to "provide the necessary processing margin" and "surveillance rounds do not contain any nuclear material" being completely inert.
noLabel	During this period, the Hungarian physicist Leó Szilárd who was residing at the United States, realized that the neutron-driven fission of heavy atoms could be used to create a nuclear chain reaction.	Such a nuclear-reaction using neutrons was an idea he had first formulated in 1933, upon reading Rutherford's disparaging remarks about generating power from his team's 1932 experiment using protons to split lithium.
noLabel	The text of the English Bill of Rights of 1689 includes language protecting the right of Protestants against disarmament by the Crown.	This document states: "That the Subjects which are Protestants may have Arms for their Defence suitable to their Conditions and as allowed by Law.
noLabel	These characteristics include low degrees of corruption (to avoid officials selling materials and technology for their own personal gain as occurred with the A.Q.	Khan smuggling network in Pakistan), high degrees of political stability (defined by the World Bank as “likelihood that the government will be destabilized or overthrown by unconstitutional or violent means, including politically-motivated violence and terrorism”), high governmental effectiveness scores (a World Bank aggregate measure of “the quality of the civil service and the degree of its independence from political pressures [and] the quality of policy formulation and implementation”), and a strong degree of regulatory competence .
noLabel	Complaints about the possible deleterious effects of mass media appear throughout history, even Plato was concerned about the effects of plays on youth .Various media/genres, including dime novels, comic books, jazz, rock and roll, role playing/computer games and many others have attracted speculation that consumers of such media may become more aggressive, rebellious or immoral.	This has led some scholars to conclude statements made by some researchers merely fit into a cycle of media-based moral panics (e.g.
noLabel	Paul thus sees it as a problem of evil, because this means, throughout human history, over 50 billion people died naturally before they were old enough to give mature consent.	He adds that this could have implications for calculating the population of a heaven (which could include an additional 30 000 billion humans who died naturally but prenatally, the aforementioned 50 billion children, and finally the remaining 50 billion adults – excluding those alive today) . 
noLabel	In Part II of the play Tamburlaine, by Christopher Marlowe, Tamburlaine (the protagonist) burns a copy of the Qur'an after having conquered Asia Minor and Egypt.	His book-burning and declaration of independence from any deity leads to his fatal illness, and subsequently the end of the play. 
noLabel	" A White House spokesman cautiously said that the United States "deeply regrets the loss of life and injuries sustained, and is currently working to understand the circumstances surrounding this tragedy.	" President Barack Obama told his counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu that he deeply regretted the loss of life in the Israeli raid urged him to quickly get to the bottom of the incident.
noLabel	Some countries, such as the United Arab Emirates and particularly the Emirate of Dubai have constructed large artificial islands, or have created large dam and dike systems, like the Netherlands, which reclaim land from the sea to increase their total land area .	Some scientists have said that in the future, densely populated cities will use vertical farming to grow food inside skyscrapers .
noLabel	From the Geist and Lambin (2002) study described in the previous section, the underlying driving forces were prioritized as follows (with the percent of the 152 cases the factor played a significant role in): economic factors (81%), institutional or policy factors (78%), technological factors (70%), cultural or socio-political factors (66%), and demographic factors (61%).	The main economic factors included commercialization and growth of timber markets (68%), which are driven by national and international demands; urban industrial growth (38%); low domestic costs for land, labor, fuel, and timber (32%); and increases in product prices mainly for cash crops (25%).
noLabel	" Because the Church sees sex as more than just a physical act but rather one that affects both body and soul, it teaches that chastity is a virtue all people are called to acquire .	It is defined as the inner unity of a person's "bodily and spiritual being" that successfully integrates a person's sexuality with his or her "entire human nature" .
noLabel	In 2005, the historian Gary Clayton Anderson of the University of Oklahoma published The Conquest of Texas: Ethnic Cleansing in the Promised Land, 1830–1875.	This book repudiates traditional historians, such as Walter Prescott Webb and Rupert N. Richardson, who viewed the settlement of Texas by the displacement of the native populations as a healthful development.
noLabel	Early 17th century descriptive notices of various characteristic types and fashions of men portray tobacconists and smokers as individuals who suffer from false self-images and mistaken illusions about the properties of tobacco taking .	Although physicians such as Benjamin Rush had claimed tobacco use (including smoking) negatively impacted one's health in 1798, it was not until the early 20th century that serious medical studies began to be conducted.
noLabel	A study by Hans Forssman and Inga Thuwe was cited by the Rockefeller Commission and is probably the first serious empirical research on this topic.	They studied the children of 188 women who were denied abortions from 1939 to 1941 at the hospital in Gothenburg, Sweden.
noLabel	Chicago School sociologists adopted a social ecology approach to studying cities, and postulated that urban neighborhoods with high levels of poverty often experience breakdown in the social structure and institutions such as family and schools.	This results in social disorganization, which reduces the ability of these institutions to control behavior and creates an environment ripe for deviant behavior. 
noLabel	Likewise the term "traitor" is used in heated political discussiontypically as a slur against political dissidents, or against officials in power who are perceived as failing to act in the best interest of their constituents.	In certain cases, as with the German Dolchstoßlegende, the accusation of treason towards a large group of people can be a unifying political message. 
noLabel	In the 1960s & '70s, African-American and Puerto Rican political activism banded together to battle the common problems of racial discrimination, poverty and underpresentation in many urban areas across the US like in New York City.	Also to note there was substantial intermarriage between the newly-arrived Indian American, later came the Filipino and Hispanic communities in California under similar working conditions and shared cultural values in the 1920s (see Punjabi Mexican American). 
noLabel	Moreover, the site hosts many articles about the allegedly absurd lengths that copyright enforcement is taken to, which they claim have hindered the ability of consumers to buy the products they want.	For instance, a Mises blog entry notes that a bakery is refusing to put Disney characters on its customized birthday cakes, lest it be liable for infringement; another blog criticizes the Marvel Comics lawsuit over the City of Heroes game that allows players to create characters that resemble those from its comic books .
noLabel	Even with more stringent punishments, however, track and field and other Olympic sports will face serious questions of credibility next August at the Summer Games in Athens, many acknowledge.	Nothing is finer than to think you are watching a collection of people from the world who won their national competitions and assemble in Athens and the best man or woman wins, Catlin of U.C.L.A.
noLabel	In March 2006, Falun Gong and The Epoch Times said that the Chinese government and its agencies, including the People's Liberation Army, were conducting "widespread and systematic organ harvesting of living practitioners" specifically at the Sujiatun Thrombosis Hospital in Shenyang according to two eye-witness accounts that practitioners detained in the hospital's basement were being tissue-typed, and killed to order .	In July 2006, David Kilgour and David Matas, sponsored by Falun Gong to investigate the allegations, published a report which they admitted the evidence was circumstantial, but which taken together supported the allegations that large numbers of Falun Gong practitioners were victims of systematic organ harvesting whilst still alive . 
noLabel	Others Will Look For Way to Beat the System Dr. Gary Wadler, an expert on performance-enhancing drugs who is a member of the World Anti-Doping Agency's medical research committee, called baseball's steroid-testing procedures worse than terrible.	It's better than nothing, I guess, Wadler said, but in terms of steroids, it's more of an IQ test than a steroid test, because you have to be really dumb to fail it.
noLabel	On October 27, 2007 The New York Times reported that the imaging company Geoeye released an image of the building from September 16, 2003, and from this security analyst John Pike estimated that construction began in 2001.	"A senior intelligence official" also told The New York Times that the U.S. has observed the site for years by spy satellite .
noLabel	This has been put forward by J. Richard Gott III, James E. Gunn, David N. Schramm, and Beatrice Tinsley, who said that asking what occurred before the Big Bang is like asking what is north of the North Pole .	However, some cosmologists and physicists do attempt to investigate what could have occurred before the Big Bang, using such scenarios as the collision of membranes to give a cause for the Big Bang .
noLabel	Some states allow students to leave school between 14&ndash;17 with parental permission, before finishing high school; other states require students to stay in school until age 18.	Many states do however allow gifted and talented students to accelerate their education so as to finish all educational requirements early. 
noLabel	Fellow economists Christopher Foote and Christopher Goetz criticized the methodology in the Donohue-Levitt study, noting a lack of accommodation for statewide yearly variations such as cocaine use, and recalculating based on incidence of crime per capita; they found no statistically significant results .	Levitt and Donohue responded to this by presenting an adjusted data set which took into account these concerns and reported that the data maintained the statistical significance of their initial paper . 
noLabel	Most of the information on sexual matters were obtained informally from friends and the media, and much of this information was of doubtful value.	Much of such information was usually known to be deficient, especially during the period following puberty when curiosity of sexual matters was the most acute.
noLabel	A New York Times report on 18 October 2002 quoted U.S. intelligence officials having stated that Pakistan was a major supplier of critical equipment to North Korea.	The report added that equipment such as gas centrifuges appeared to have been "part of a barter deal" in which North Korea supplied Pakistan with missiles.
noLabel	This paper reports that the sex ratio at birth for the white ethnic group in the United States was 1.04 when the gestational age was 33–36 weeks, but 1.15 for gestational ages of less than 28 weeks, 28–32 weeks, and 37 or more weeks.	This study also found that the sex ratios at birth in the United States, between 1981–2006, were lower in both black and hispanic ethnic groups when compared with white ethnic group. 
noLabel	Concrete was to be an integral part of the tower block designs; it could be poured on site, offering boundless flexibility to the building designers .	To the planners, concrete was a silver bullet for the construction process – it was economical, and 'was vaunted as being long-lasting, if not indestructible' . 
noLabel	It was this determined resistance to the Civil Constitution of the Clergy and the dechristianisation campaigns that played a major role in the re-emergence of the Catholic Church as a prominent social institution.	In fact, Olwen Hufton notes about the Counter-Revolutionary women: “for it is her commitment to her religion which determines in the post-Thermidorean period the re-emergence of the Catholic Church…” .
noLabel	Recent campaigning by anti-nuclear groups has related to several nuclear power plants including the Enrico Fermi Nuclear Power Plant, Indian Point Energy Center, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Pilgrim Nuclear Generating Station, Salem Nuclear Power Plant, and Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Plant .	There have also been campaigns relating to the Y-12 Nuclear Weapons Plant, the Idaho National Laboratory, proposed Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, the Hanford Site, the Nevada Test Site, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, and transportation of nuclear waste from the Los Alamos National Laboratory .
noLabel	Noncommunicable diseases, partly due to a lack of exercise, are currently the greatest public health problem in most countries around the world .	Each year at least 1.9 million people die as a result of physical inactivity, which makes inactivity one of the leading preventable causes of death worldwide .
noLabel	U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague, speaking in Luxembourg, stressed the need for "a truly independent inquiry and a thorough investigation that the international community can respect.	" Israeli Intelligence and Atomic Energy Minister Dan Meridor told Turkish media that there "will be international elements in the commission which is going to be formed" . 
noLabel	The sovereign similarly only draws from New Zealand coffers for support in the performance of her duties when in New Zealand or acting as Queen of New Zealand abroad; New Zealanders do not pay any money to the Queen or any other member of the Royal Family, either towards personal income or to support royal residences outside of New Zealand.	Normally, tax dollars pay only for the costs associated with the Governor-General and Queen's Representative as instruments of the Queen's authority, including travel, security, residences, offices, ceremonies, and the like.
noLabel	The exact timescale for how long this smoke remains, and thus how severely this smoke affects the climate once it reaches the stratosphere, is dependent on both chemical and physical removal processes.	The physical removal mechanisms affecting the timescale of smoke particle removal are how quickly the particles in the smoke coagulate and fall out of the atmosphere via dry deposition, and to a slower degree, the time it takes for solar radiation pressure to move the particles to a lower level in the atmosphere.
noLabel	Gun violence is not new in the United States, with the assassinations of President Abraham Lincoln in 1865, and of Presidents James Garfield, William McKinley, and John F. Kennedy.	High profile gun violence incidents, such as the assassinations of Robert F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King, Jr., and, more recently, the Columbine High School massacre, the Beltway sniper attacks, the Virginia Tech massacre, and the 2011 Tucson shooting, have fueled debate over gun policies . 
noLabel	Canada was the home for 'American' British Loyalists during and following the American Revolution, making much of Canada distinct in its unwillingness to embrace republicanism and populist democracy during the nineteenth century.	Canada was also the destination for slaves from America via the Underground Railroad (The 'North Star' as heralded by Martin Luther King Jr.); Canada was the refuge for American Vietnam draft-dodgers during the turbulent 1960s. 
noLabel	In February 1942, an escaped inmate from the Chełmno extermination camp, Jacob Grojanowski, reached the Warsaw Ghetto, where he gave detailed information about the Chełmno camp to the Oneg Shabbat group.	His report, which became known as the Grojanowski Report, was smuggled out of the ghetto through the channels of the Polish underground to the Delegatura, and reached London by June 1942.
noLabel	Recessions after World War II appear to have been less severe than earlier recessions, but the reasons for this are unclear .	The Depression of 1893 was one of the worst in American history, with the unemployment rate exceeding 10% for half a decade .
noLabel	Since commerce worldwide is becoming more integrated, with firms headquartered in one country increasingly doing business in many other countries, it is logical to expect that lobbying efforts will reflect the increasing globalization.	Sometimes foreign-owned corporations will want to lobby the United States government, and in such instances, new rules can apply, since it can be particularly thorny resolving whether national security interests are at stake and how they might be affected. 
noLabel	Terry Flew (2005)(p.&nbsp;264) suggests that the appeal of the "Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game" lie in the idea of escapism, and the ability to assume the role of someone or something that is a fantasy in real life.	He notes that '…for some women, [they] enjoy adopting what they feel to be an image of femininity more acceptable or desirable than their real world body…' . 
noLabel	The second head included defamatory statements made in private, and in this case the offense lay in the content of the imputation, not in the manner of its publication.	The truth was therefore a sufficient defense, for no man had a right to demand legal protection for a false reputation.
noLabel	Monarchy, especially absolute monarchy, sometimes is linked to religious aspects; many monarchs once claimed the right to rule by the will of a deity (Divine Right of Kings, Mandate of Heaven), a special connection to a deity (sacred king) or even purported to be divine kings, or incarnations of deities themselves (imperial cult).	Many European monarchs have been styled Fidei defensor (Defender of the Faith); some hold official positions relating to the state religion or established church. 
noLabel	This category includes James Lovelock's Gaia hypothesis; the theory that the planet earth alters its geo-physiological structure over time in order to ensure the continuation of an equilibrium of evolving organic and inorganic matter.	The planet is characterized as a unified, holistic entity with ethical worth of which the human race is of no particular significance in the long run.
noLabel	As early as 26 June 1946, Jawaharlal Nehru, soon to be India's first Prime Minister, announced: "As long as the world is constituted as it is, every country will have to devise and use the latest devices for its protection.	I have no doubt India will develop her scientific researches and I hope Indian scientists will use the atomic force for constructive purposes.
noLabel	The main objective of the Convention is to promote the national and international harmonisation of the measures to be taken against doping.	Furthermore the Convention describes the mission of the Monitoring Group set up in order to monitor its implementation and periodically re-examine the list of prohibited substances and methods which can be found in annex to the main text. 
noLabel	In an August 2007 interview on the Beijing 2008 website, IOC President Jacques Rogge said, the IOC "definitely would love to see the continents that have not yet organized the Games like Africa or Latin America do that in the future.	I cannot tell you exactly when, but I will see it in my life.. We believe in the near future we can determine the host country under this rotating system.
noLabel	However, highly ranked French schools do implement affirmative action in that they are obligated to take a certain amount of students from impoverished families .	Additionally, following the Norwegian example, after January 27, 2014, women must represent at least 20% of board members in all stock exchange listed or state owned companies.
noLabel	One is to give statutory expression to the moral and economic rights of creators in their creations and the rights of the public in access to those creations.	The second is to promote, as a deliberate act of Government policy, creativity and the dissemination and application of its results and to encourage fair trading which would contribute to economic and social development . 
noLabel	Much of the debate over the contemporary Canadian identity is argued in political terms, and defines Canada as a country defined by its government policies, which are thought to reflect deeper cultural values.	To the political philosopher Charles Blattberg, Canada should be conceived as a civic or political community, a community of citizens, one that contains many other kinds of communities within it.
noLabel	The reasons behind the argument that “larger is better” include the reduction in the negative impacts of patch edge effects, the general idea that species richness increases with habitat area and the ability of larger habitats to support greater populations with lower extinction probabilities.	Noss & Cooperrider support the “larger is better” claim and developed a model that implies areas of habitat less than 1000ha are “tiny” and of low conservation value.
noLabel	Without federal funding, private funding, and "other income", D.C. charter schools received slightly more on average ($8,725 versus $8,676 per pupil), but that funding was more concentrated in the better funded charter schools (as seen by the median DC charter school funding of $7,940 per pupil).	With federal, private, and "other income", charter school funding shot up to an average of $11,644 versus the district $10,384 per pupil.
noLabel	The founding of the British penal colony at Sydney Cove in 1788 was in the geopolitical context of the revolution in the American colonies in 1776 and a year before the French revolution of 1789.	The Anti-Transportation League, a group founded in 1849 which was opposed to the transportation of convicts to Australia, argued that such a "Fenian" colony could separate from the British Empire, due to its then largely Irish Catholic make up.
noLabel	Such research has been criticized by some as being utilitarian, discriminatory as to race and socioeconomic class, and as promoting eugenics as a solution to crime .	Levitt states in his book Freakonomics that they are neither promoting nor negating any course of action—merely reporting data as economists.
noLabel	Several soldiers were charged with misconduct, including manslaughter charges against a soldier for shooting at Palestinian women carrying white flags, as well as charges against use of a boy as a human shield.	Brigadier General Eyal Eisenberg and Colonel Ilan Malca were reprimanded for authorizing an artillery attack which hit a UN compound .
noLabel	In children and adolescents, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)  and family therapy  currently have the most research evidence for the treatment of substance abuse problems.	These treatments can be administered in a variety of different formats, each of which has varying levels of research support  . 
noLabel	As of late 2009, roughly 43% of U.S. public debt needed to be rolled over within 12 months, the highest proportion since the mid-1980s.	The relatively short maturity of outstanding Treasury debt, coupled with the increased reliance on foreign creditors, puts the U.S. at greater risk of sharply higher borrowing costs should risk perceptions change abruptly in credit markets .
noLabel	A flood of Pong clones eventually led to the video game crash of 1977, which came to an end with the mainstream success of Taito's 1978 shooter game Space Invaders, marking the beginning of the golden age of arcade video games and inspiring dozens of manufacturers to enter the market .	The game inspired arcade machines to become prevalent in mainstream locations such as shopping malls, traditional storefronts, restaurants, and convenience stores .
noLabel	The unpledged superdelegates will include members of the United States House of Representatives and Senate, state and territorial governors, members of the Democratic National Committee, and other party leaders.	Because of possible deaths, resignations, or the results of intervening or special elections, the final number of these superdelegates may not be known until the week of the convention.
noLabel	"The states, rather than the people, for whose sake the states exist, are frequently the objects which attract and arrest our principal attention..	Sentiments and expressions of this inaccurate kind prevail in our common, even in our convivial, language.. ‘The United States,’ instead of the ‘People of the United States,’ is the toast given.
noLabel	On May 17, 1954, the U.S. Supreme Court handed down its ruling in Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka, Kansas, in which the unanimous court held that separate public schools for black and white students was unconstitutional.	Although agitation for an end to racial segregation in schools (and society at large) had been building in the United States since the end of World War II, Brown sparked the modern American civil rights movement . 
noLabel	The first round came with the signing of the memorandums with the IMF and the ECB concerning a loan of €80&nbsp;billion.	The package was implemented on 9 February 2010 and included a freeze in the salaries of all government employees, a 10% cut in bonuses, as well as cuts in overtime workers, public employees and work-related travels .
noLabel	25 July 2008: The Australian Hepburn Wind Project is a proposed wind farm, which will be the first Australian community-owned wind farm.	The initiative emerged because the community felt that the state and federal governments were not doing enough to address climate change .
noLabel	The process of family planning varied throughout China, as many different people differed in their responsiveness to the one child policy, based on location and socioeconomic status.	For example, many families in the cities accepted this policy more readily based on the lack of space, money, and resources that are often offered in the cities.
noLabel	Tikun Olam broke the gag order against reporting the arrest of prominent Israeli Palestinian political activists Ameer Makhoul and Omar Said by the Shin Bet, who accused them of spying against Israel on behalf of Hezbollah.	Neither detainee was permitted to consult an attorney for several weeks, and Makhoul contends that his alleged confession was extracted under torture.
noLabel	They are in contrast to tactical nuclear weapons, which are designed for use in battle, as part of an attack with conventional forces.	Strategic nuclear weapons generally have significantly larger yields, starting from 100 kilotons up to destructive yields in the low megaton range.
noLabel	This is why they targeted the rockets – the rockets do make the occupier insecure, because every one is a symbol and a physical act of our rejection to their occupation, to their massacres, to their crimes, and to their continuing assaults on our people.	Each rocket says that we will not allow their so-called "solutions" [the Israeli-Palestinian peace process] that are based on the abrogation and denial of our rights . 
noLabel	Some political libel and forum shopping incidents, both common in Canada, have been called SLAPP suits, because such suits load defendants with costs of responding in unfamiliar jurisdictions or at times (typically elections) when they're extremely busy and short of funds.	Both types of suits are almost unique to Canada, so there is little academic concern nor examination of whether political subject matter or remote forums are a clear indicator of SLAPP.
noLabel	These changes led to three years of economic recovery in the Gaza Strip, disrupted by the outbreak of the al-Aqsa Intifada in the last quarter of 2000 that lasted until 2004.	The al-Aqsa Intifada triggered tight IDF closures of the border with Israel, as well as frequent curbs on traffic in Palestinian self-rule areas, severely disrupting trade and labor movements.
noLabel	In June 2008, four teens allegedly obsessed with Grand Theft Auto IV went on a crime spree after being in New Hyde Park, New York.	They first robbed a man, knocking his teeth out and then they stopped a woman driving a black BMW and stole her car and her cigarettes .
noLabel	While 61 percent of Americans said they were bothered by the use of steroids among professional athletes, 75 percent said they were concerned about the use of performance-enhancing drugs among Olympic athletes.	This response seemed to be based partly on the ideal that American Olympic sports are purer than professional sports, and on the widely held belief that Olympic athletes are still amateurs.
noLabel	Public employee unions are usually prohibited from bargaining collectively with respect to pay or other benefits and/or rights on the grounds that their employer, the general public, is not represented in such collective bargaining agreements but rather by administrative officials who cannot fully represent nor bind the voters to rules or procedures that may conflict with existing or subsequently executed laws and regulations .	Thus, a collective agreement providing for fixed rights such as salary rates and pension contributions could not be revised by subsequent legislatures elected by the public at large, even if such measures were required to prevent fiscal insolvency . 
noLabel	The report further stated that "most murders are intraracial" with 86% of White murders committed by Whites, and 94% of Black murders committed by Blacks .	However, the document does not provide any details concerning what races or ethnicities are included in the designations "White", "Black", or "Other Races".
noLabel	Mere vulgar abuse is an insult that is not necessarily defamatory because it is not intended to be taken literally or believed, or likely to cause real damage to a reputation.	Vituperative statements made in anger, such as calling someone "an asshole" during a drunken argument, would likely be considered mere vulgar abuse and not defamatory. 
noLabel	In 1991, Obama accepted a two-year position as Visiting Law and Government Fellow at the University of Chicago Law School to work on his first book .	He then taught at the University of Chicago Law School for twelve years—as a Lecturer from 1992 to 1996, and as a Senior Lecturer from 1996 to 2004—teaching constitutional law . 
noLabel	A similar argument is that deficit spending today will require increased taxation in the future, thus burdening future generations – see generational accounting for discussion.	Others argue that because debt is both owed by and owed to private individuals, there is no net debt burden of government debt, just wealth transfer (redistribution) from those who owe debt (government, backed by tax payers) to those who hold debt (holders of government bonds) . 
noLabel	When circulation began to decline in the depression days of the late 20s, the name of the magazine was changed to Boxing, Racing and Football.	In October 1931, the paper was sold to a syndicate of London sportsmen, who installed Sydney Rushton, a long-time London fight reporter, as the new editor.
noLabel	There have also been several cases of cashiers at gas & convenience stores who have attempted to scam customers out of their winnings.	Some locations require the patron to hand the lottery ticket to the cashier to determine how much they have won, or if they have won at all, the cashier then scans the ticket to determine one or both.
noLabel	Scammell later admitted that the line on Censorship was added as an afterthought after it was perceived that the reference was not clear to readers.	“Panicking, we hastily added the words 'on censorship' as a subtitle,” wrote Scammell in the December 1981 issue of the magazine, “and this it has remained ever since, nagging me with its ungrammaticality (Index of Censorship, surely) and a standing apology for the opacity of its title.” .
noLabel	The latter means that the claim, if relied on for making a purchasing decision, is likely to be harmful by adversely affecting that decision.	If an ad is implicitly false, evidence must be obtained for what consumers saw the ad saying, and for the materiality of that, and for the true facts about the advertised item, but no evidence is required that actual deception occurred, or that reliance occurred, or that the advertiser intended to deceive or knew that the claim was false. 
noLabel	The origins of US defamation law pre-date the American Revolution; one famous 1734 case involving John Peter Zenger sowed the seed for the later establishment of truth as an absolute defense against libel charges.	The outcome of the case is one of jury nullification, and not a case where the defense acquitted itself as a matter of law.
noLabel	Abortion-rights advocates argue that whether or not to continue with a pregnancy is an inviolable personal choice, as it involves a woman's body, personal health, and future.	They believe that both parents' and children's lives are better when abortions are legal, thus preventing women from going to desperate lengths to obtain illegal abortions.
noLabel	In 1991 the government announced it would begin taking applications from private television companies wishing to broadcast on the terrestrial network.	TV4, which had previously been broadcasting via satellite, was granted a permit and began its terrestrial broadcasts in 1992, becoming the first private channel to broadcast television content from within the country. 
noLabel	Physical activity among children in activities from self propelled transport, to school physical education, and organized sports is declining in many countries .	A 2008 meta analysis found that 63 of 73 studies (86%) showed an increased rate of childhood obesity with increased media exposure, and rates increasing proportionally to time spent watching television .
noLabel	In mid-2007, International Monetary Fund (IMF) data indicated that inflation was highest in the oil-exporting countries, largely due to the unsterilized growth of foreign exchange reserves, the term "unsterilized" referring to a lack of monetary policy operations that could offset such a foreign exchange intervention in order to maintain a country's monetary policy target.	However, inflation was also growing in countries classified by the IMF as "non-oil-exporting LDCs" (Least Developed Countries) and "Developing Asia", on account of the rise in oil and food prices . 
noLabel	Which is why he has chosen not to contest any of the evidence piled high and mighty in the Usada report.	If the US attorney's office comes calling, that will not be an option open to him.But there are also questions for others.
noLabel	The trade deficit reached a dollar peak of approximately $700 billion in 2008 (4.9% of GDP) before dropping to $420 billion in 2009 (2.9% of GDP) due to the 2009 recession .	The trade deficit was $500 billion in 2010, with a goods deficit of $650 billion offset by a services surplus of $150 billion .
noLabel	The liquid deuterium fuel of Ivy Mike was impractical for a deployable weapon, and the next advance was to use a solid lithium deuteride fusion fuel instead.	In 1954 this was tested in the "Castle Bravo" shot (the device was code-named the Shrimp), which had a yield of 15 megatons (2.5 times higher than expected) and is the largest U.S. bomb ever tested. 
noLabel	Some supporters of affirmative action point out that, even in the absence of affirmative action, college admissions rarely are purely merit-based: athletes, musicians, and legacy students (children of alumni) have always been given preferential treatment.	For example, Harvard University admits 35-40% of legacy applicants, and a rejected white applicant is more likely to have been displaced by a legacy student than by one who benefited from affirmative action.
noLabel	Which kings (kuningaz) ruled these Suiones is unknown, but Norse mythology presents a long line of legendary and semi-legendary kings going back to the last centuries BC.	As for literacy in Sweden itself, the runic script was in use among the south Scandinavian elite by at least the 2nd century AD, but all that has come down to the present from the Roman Period is curt inscriptions on artefacts, mainly of male names, demonstrating that the people of south Scandinavia spoke Proto-Norse at the time, a language ancestral to Swedish and other North Germanic languages. 
noLabel	The focus on supposed Allied atrocities during the war has also been a theme in Holocaust denial literature, particularly in countries where outright denial of the Holocaust is illegal .	According to historian Deborah Lipstadt, the concept of "comparable Allied wrongs" such as the post-war expulsions and alleged Allied war crimes like the bombing of Dresden, is at the center of, and a continuously repeated theme of, contemporary Holocaust denial; phenomenon she calls "immoral equivalencies" .
noLabel	$4.3 billion: Home energy credit to provide an expanded credit to homeowners who make their homes more energy-efficient in 2009 and 2010.	Homeowners could recoup 30 percent of the cost up to $1,500 of numerous projects, such as installing energy-efficient windows, doors, furnaces and air conditioners. 
noLabel	Early on in the development of its nuclear weapons, the United States relied in part on information-sharing with both the United Kingdom and Canada, as codified in the Quebec Agreement of 1943.	These three parties agreed not to share nuclear weapons information with other countries without the consent of the others, an early attempt at nonproliferation.
noLabel	Middle and upper class students grow up with parents who foster their intellectual and educational development by engaging in a child raising approach known as concerted cultivation.	This approach values education and learning, and parents engaged in this form of parenting value visits to the museum, extracurricular activities, homework, tutoring, and reading to their children .
noLabel	Despite subsidized attendance cost at public institutions and tax deductions, however, tuition costs have risen at three times the rate of median household income since 1982 .	In fear that many future Americans might be excluded from tertiary education, progressive Democrats have proposed increasing financial aid and subsidizing an increased share of attendance costs.
noLabel	In response to these criticisms against pharmaceutical patents it has been pointed out that less than 5% of medicines on the WHO’s essential drugs list are subject to patent monopoly and that countries who believe that these monopolies are impeding health care may not be aware that the medicines in question, particularly for HIV/AIDS related drugs, are not patented in their country .	Another response could be that, without patents or other forms of research funding, the medicines in question would not even have been developed until decades later. 
noLabel	One factor frequently associated with the Little Emperor effect, the four-two-one family structure refers to the collapse of the traditionally large Chinese family into four grandparents and two parents doting on one child .	Beyond the obvious further funneling of resources towards the whims and potential of the only child, this four-two-one reconfiguration of the familial structure has distinct ramifications for Chinese society.
noLabel	The United States is obliged to recognize valid claims for asylum under the 1951 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and its 1967 Protocol.	As defined by these agreements, a refugee is a person who is outside his or her country of nationality (or place of habitual residence if stateless) who, owing to a fear of persecution on account of a protected ground, is unable or unwilling to avail himself of the protection of the state.
noLabel	And professional wrestling, where steroid use has been widely documented, has for years been a leader in ratings on cable television.	A poll of 500 Colorado sports fans published Sunday in The Denver Post showed that 72 percent of respondents would be bothered a lot if athletes used performance-enhancing drugs to gain an unfair advantage.
noLabel	From the 1910s, the Southern Jewish communities were attacked by the Ku Klux Klan, who objected to Jewish immigration, and often used 'The Jewish Banker' in their propaganda.	In 1915, Texas-born, New York Jew Leo Frank was lynched by the newly re-formed Klan, after being convicted of rape and sentenced to death (his punishment was commuted to life imprisonment) . 
noLabel	4 percent of the population practices Christianity; 4 percent, Islam; 1 percent, traditional animistic beliefs; and 2 percent follow other religions, including Mahayana Buddhism, Hinduism, East Asian religions and the Bahá'í Faith .	However, according to a U.S. State Department's 2010 international religious freedom report, official statistics are alleged to underestimate the non-Buddhist population.
noLabel	School health services are services from medical, teaching and other professionals applied in or out of school to improve the health and well-being of children and in some cases whole families.	These services have been developed in different ways around the globe but the fundamentals are constant: the early detection, correction, prevention or amelioration of disease, disability and abuse from which school aged children can suffer.
noLabel	He then sued IHR in the United States and the case was subsequently settled for $50,000, plus $40,000 in damages for personal suffering.	The court declared the statement that "that Jews were gassed to death at the Auschwitz Concentration Camp in Poland during the summer of 1944" was a fact .
noLabel	In academia, the peer review process is occasionally cited as suppressing dissent against "mainstream" theories (part of an overall system of "suppression of intellectual dissent").	Robert Anton Wilson, in "The New Inquisition" (New Falcon Publications, 1991), called this an inquisition of the editors and reviewers of scientific journals, of leading authorities and self-appointed "skeptics", and of corporations and governments that have a vested interest .
noLabel	To this end, symbols were borrowed from historic cultures and redefined, while those of the old regime were either destroyed or reattributed acceptable characteristics.	These revised symbols were used to instill in the public a new sense of tradition and reverence for the Enlightenment and the Republic .
noLabel	The Education Minister of the State of Queensland said in July 2009 that the rising levels of violence in schools were "totally unacceptable" and admitted that not enough had been done to combat violent behaviour.	55,000 students had been suspended in the state's schools in 2008, nearly a third of which were for "physical misconduct" . 
noLabel	Setting national renewable energy targets can be an important part of a renewable energy policy and these targets are usually defined as a percentage of the primary energy and/or electricity generation mix.	For example, the European Union has prescribed an indicative renewable energy target of 12 per cent of the total EU energy mix and 22 per cent of electricity consumption by 2010.
noLabel	The carcinogenity of acrolein has been difficult to study by animal experimentation, because it has such a toxicity that it tends to kill the animals before they develop cancer .	Generally, compounds able to react by conjugate addition as electrophiles (so-called Michael acceptors after Michael reaction) are toxic and carcinogenic, because they can permanently alkylate DNA, similarly to mustard gas or aflatoxin.
noLabel	In 1939 Nishina recognized the military potential of nuclear fission, and was worried that the Americans were working on a nuclear weapon which might be used against Japan.	Indeed, in 1939, President Franklin D. Roosevelt started the first investigations into fission weapons in the United States, which eventually evolved into the massive Manhattan Project, and the laboratory from which Japan purchased its own cyclotron would become one of the major sites for weapons research. 
noLabel	The German conservative, Oswald Spengler, remarked on what he perceived as the culturally degrading influence of Africans in modern Western culture: in The Hour of Decision Spengler denounced "the 'happy ending' of an empty existence, the boredom of which has brought to jazz music and Negro dancing to perform the Death March for a great Culture" (The Hour of Decision, pp.&nbsp;227–228).	During the Nazi era, German scientists rearranged academia to support claims of a grand "Aryan" agent behind the splendors of all human civilizations, including India and Ancient Egypt .
noLabel	Even before the Russian revolution and the followed by the February Revolution, the mineralogist Vladimir Vernadsky had made a number of public calls for a survey of Soviet Union's uranium deposits.	The main motivation for nuclear research at the time was radium, which had scientific as well as medical uses, and could be retrieved from borehole water from the Ukhta oilfields. 
noLabel	Working also with the University of Arizona and the North Carolina State University according to Negri "In deforested areas, the land heats up faster and reaches a higher temperature, leading to localized upward motions that enhance the formation of clouds and ultimately produce more rainfall" .	They also examined cloud cover in the deforested areas, and in comparison with the areas still unaffected by deforestation found a significant increase in cloud cover and rainfall during the August–September wet season where forest had been removed.
noLabel	Lasiurines such as the hoary bat, red bat, and the silver-haired bat appear to be most vulnerable at North American sites.	Almost nothing is known about current populations of these species and the impact on bat numbers as a result of mortality at windpower locations.
noLabel	On May 20, 2010, the internet ban by the government of Pakistan related to "Everybody Draw Mohammed Day" was extended to include the video-sharing website, YouTube .	YouTube released a statement, saying it is "looking into the matter and working to ensure that the service is restored as soon as possible" .
noLabel	The code spelled out "ABACABB", a nod to the Abacab album by the band Genesis who shared their name with the North American version of the console.	A unique Easter egg in this version included a head shot of the President of Probe Software, Fergus McGovern, which sometimes flew in front of the moon in The Pit stage.
noLabel	Now suppose that we have just tossed four heads in a row, so that if the next coin toss were also to come up heads, it would complete a run of five successive heads.	Since the probability of a run of five successive heads is only (one in thirty-two), a believer in the gambler's fallacy might believe that this next flip is less likely to be heads than to be tails.
noLabel	There is debate regarding whether tax cuts, less intrusive regulation, and productivity improvements could feasibly generate sufficient economic growth to offset the deficit and debt challenges facing the country.	According to David Stockman, OMB Director under President Reagan, post-1980 Republican ideology embraces the idea that the "economy will outgrow the deficit if plied with enough tax cuts.
noLabel	For instance, the ringing of Church bells resonating through the town called people to confession and was a symbol of unity for the community .	With the onset of the dechristianisation campaign the Republic silenced these bells and sought simultaneously to silence the religious fervor of the majority Catholic population .
noLabel	Taylor told the doctor that he had been injecting himself with the steroid Deca 300, and taking oral Anadrol, Don Hooton said, but by May 19 Taylor said he had stopped using the drugs.	Ajello said he believed that Taylor had halted his usage later and had planned to start again after a family vacation to England in July.
noLabel	Modern technology and associated culture shifts have changed how government works (see wikileaks), what information people can find out about each other, and the ability of politicians to stay in office if they are involved in sex scandals.	This is particularly interesting for mental health professionals, whose clients can now find out their sexual orientation, home address, and many other pieces of personal information online (see  for more info).
noLabel	Some argue that religious violence is mostly caused by misinterpretations of the relevant religions' ethical rules and a combination of non-religious factors .	Robert Pape argues that the news reports about suicide attacks are profoundly misleading: "There is little connection between suicide terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism, or any one of the world's religions".
noLabel	Under the nonpartisan blanket primary, a party with two candidates and only 41% popular support would beat a party with three candidates and 59% popular support if voters split their votes evenly amongst candidates for their own party.	The results of one study comparing the results in Washington state between the 2004 (closed) and 2008 (top two) primaries, indicate that the top two primary reduced the likelihood of running against a same party candidate and it reduced the likelihood that a strong incumbent would face a challenger from his or her own party . 
noLabel	They were to be forbidden to marry, the existing ban on any medical help to Poles in Germany would be extended, and eventually Poles would cease to exist.	On August 22, 1939, about one week before the onset of the war, Hitler had "prepared, for the moment only in the East, my 'Death's Head' formations with orders to kill without pity or mercy all men, women and children of Polish descent or language.
noLabel	In the United States, the outsourcing of labour to Asia, Latin America, and Africa has been partially driven by increasing costs of union partnership, which gives other countries a comparative advantage in labour, making it more efficient to perform labour-intensive work there .	Milton Friedman, Nobel economist and advocate of laissez-faire capitalism, sought to show that unionisation produces higher wages (for the union members) at the expense of fewer jobs, and that, if some industries are unionized while others are not, wages will tend to decline in non-unionized industries . 
noLabel	Now, by contrast, despite rising tuition rates and growing university revenues (especially in the U.S.) well-paid professorial positions are rarer, replaced with poorly paid adjunct positions and graduate-student labor.	People with doctorates in the sciences, and to a lesser extent mathematics, often find jobs outside of academia (or use part-time work in industry to supplement their incomes), but a Ph.D. in the humanities and many social sciences prepares the student primarily for academic employment.
noLabel	The Organizing Committees for the Olympic Games (OCOGs) manage domestic sponsorship, ticketing and licensing programs within the host country under the direction of the IOC.	The Olympic Movement generated a total of more than US$4&nbsp;billion, €2.5 billion in revenue during the most recent Olympic quadrennium (2001–2004).
noLabel	On 13 April 2011, the UNHCR recommended that the General Assembly reconsider the report at its sixty-sixth session (to be held in September 2011), and urges the Assembly to submit that report to the Security Council for its consideration and appropriate action, including consideration of referral of the situation in the Occupied Palestinian Territory to the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court, pursuant to article 13 (b) of the Rome Statute .	The resolution was drafted by the Palestinian Authority and adopted by the Human Rights Council with 27 states voting in favour, three against, and 16 abstentions.
noLabel	The column quoted Dr. Gary I. Wadler of New York University's School of Medicine, who discussed flaxseed oil and said professional sports should get out of the business of drug testing and yield the field to the World Anti-Doping Agency.	The article should have disclosed that in addition to his role at N.Y.U., Dr. Wadler is a member of the anti-doping agency.
noLabel	Another proposal is for medical examinations on all professional British boxers who have fought world championship bouts over the past 20 years.	If members of the committee agree to hold an inquiry then evidence will also be taken from former boxers, promoters, trainers and doctors.
noLabel	Activists intentionally violated EMI's copyright of The White Album by distributing MP3 files of a mashup album called The Grey Album, in an attempt to draw public attention to copyright reform issues and anti-copyright ideals.	Reportedly over 400 sites participated including 170 that hosted the album with some protesters stating that The Grey Album illustrates a need for revisions in copyright law to allow sampling under fair use of copyrighted material, or proposing a system of fair compensation to allow for sampling .
noLabel	Changes in the expression of adolescent sexuality in the United States find their origins in the sexual revolution and was the focus of the "culture wars".	The U.S. federal government policy under George W. Bush emphasized sexual abstinence or chastity, particularly in sex education with a focus on abstinence-only sex education rather than the harm reduction approach of the safe sex focus.
noLabel	Another major factor was a drop in income due to reduction in the number of Gazans permitted entry to work in Israel.	After the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza, the flow of a limited number of workers into Israel resumed, although Israel said it would reduce or end such permits due to the victory of Hamas in the 2006 parliamentary elections. 
noLabel	Cuomo subsequently dropped out and endorsed McCall, but his name remained on the Liberal party line and failed to gain 50,000 votes, leading to the Liberal Party's failure to retain status and losing its automatic ballot line.	A Federal lawsuit (joined by Green, Libertarian, and other parties) enjoined the Board of Elections from discarding enrollment records of these disqualified parties, and also required modifications to allow voters to register themselves in non-ballot parties.
noLabel	Presidential systems are a notable feature of constitutions in the Americas, including those of the United States, Brazil, Colombia and Mexico; this is generally attributed to the influence of the United States Constitution, as the United States served as an inspiration and model for the Latin American wars of independence of the early 19th century.	Most presidents in such countries are selected by democratic means (popular direct or indirect election); however, like all other systems, the presidential model also encompasses people who become head of state by other means, notably through military dictatorship or coup d'état, as often seen in Latin American, Middle Eastern and other presidential regimes.
noLabel	All commercial acts may be deceptive, not just advertising, but noncommercial activity such as advertising for political candidates is not subject to prosecution under the FTC Act.	The 50 states have similar statutes, which generally are very similar to that of the FTC and in many cases copied so closely that they are known as "Little FTC Acts."
noLabel	One of the first laws that protected whistleblowers was the 1863 United States False Claims Act (revised in 1986), which tried to combat fraud by suppliers of the United States government during the Civil War.	The act encourages whistleblowers by promising them a percentage of the money recovered or damages won by the government and protects them from wrongful dismissal . 
noLabel	The use of drugs to enhance performance is considered unethical by most international sports organizations and especially the International Olympic Committee, although ethicists have argued that it is little different from the use of new materials in the construction of suits and sporting equipment, which similarly aid performance and can give competitors an unfair advantage over others.	The reasons for the ban are mainly the alleged health threat of performance-enhancing drugs, the equality of opportunity for athletes, and the exemplary effect of "clean" ("doping-free") sports for the public. 
noLabel	The Court is quite permissive in accepting a state's derogations from the Convention but applies a higher degree of scrutiny in deciding whether measures taken by states under a derogation are, in the words of Article 15, "strictly required by the exigencies of the situation".	Thus in A v United Kingdom, the Court dismissed a claim that a derogation lodged by the British government in response to the September 11 attacks was invalid, but went on to find that measures taken by the United Kingdom under that derogation were disproportionate . 
noLabel	In the 1920s democracy flourished, but the Great Depression brought disenchantment, and most of the countries of Europe, Latin America, and Asia turned to strong-man rule or dictatorships.	Fascism and dictatorships flourished in Nazi Germany, Italy, Spain and Portugal, as well as nondemocratic regimes in the Baltics, the Balkans, Brazil, Cuba, China, and Japan, among others . 
noLabel	The concept was taken up by the Mongols, who under Genghis Khan were able to enforce this concept more widely than China.	The Japanese attempt to unify South East Asia in the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere under Emperor Hirohito follows the model set by Imperial Germany and Joseph Chamberlain of imperial rule based on economic union, matched with Japanese religious ideas. 
noLabel	Richard Rhodes' book Dark Sun stated that a layer of plastic foam was fixed to the lead liner of the inside of the Ivy Mike steel casing using copper nails.	Rhodes quotes several designers of that bomb explaining that the plastic foam layer inside the outer case is to delay ablation and thus recoil of the outer case: if the foam were not there, metal would ablate from the inside of the outer case with a large impulse, causing the casing to recoil outwards rapidly.
noLabel	Prior to the summer protests, there had been growing unease in the population regarding the economic distress of the country which has stagnant economic growth and is ranked among the 20 poorest countries in the world according to the United Nations .	Many, including the United Nations have blamed the economic problems on the leadership of the military junta and the proportion of national income spent on the armed forces .
noLabel	A compulsory fitness exam, NAPFA, is conducted in every school once every year to assess the physical fitness of the pupils.	Pupils are given a series of fitness tests (Pull-ups/Inclined pull-ups for girls, standing broad jump, sit-ups, sit-and-reach and 1.6&nbsp;km for primary [10-12 year-olds]/2.4&nbsp;km for secondary and junior college levels [13-18 year-olds]).
noLabel	Rugby has provided one of the most visible and lasting examples of the tension between amateurism and professionalism during the development of nationally-organised sports in Britain in the late-19th century.	The split in rugby in 1895 between what became rugby league and rugby union arose as a direct result of a dispute over the pretence of a strict enforcement of its amateur status - clubs in Leeds and Bradford were fined after compensating players for missing work, whilst at the same time the Rugby Football Union (RFU) was allowing other players to be paid. 
noLabel	Investment flows in 2007 broadened and diversified, making the overall picture one of greater breadth and depth of sustainable energy use.	The mainstream capital markets are "now fully receptive to sustainable energy companies, supported by a surge in funds destined for clean energy investment" .
noLabel	There has been a rapid increase in Christian video games in the last decade, however as Christian games have striven to compete with their more popular secular progenitors, there has been an increasing number of games released that blur the lines between Christian and non-Christian values .	Jack Thompson, for instance, has publicly decried such Christian games as Left Behind: Eternal Forces, stating "It's absurd, .. you can be the Christians blowing away the infidels, and if that doesn't hit your hot button, you can be the Antichrist blowing away all the Christians.
noLabel	The GOP opposition to this mandate is based on the view that it violates the "Free Exercise Clause" of the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.	The bill was dismissed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 51-48 along largely partisan lines and is viewed as a victory for President Barack Obama's health care law .
noLabel	The EU currently requires all GMO foods to be labeled, whereas the US does not require transparent labeling of GMO foods.	Since there are still questions regarding the safety and risks associated with GMO foods, some believe the public should have the freedom to choose and know what they are eating and require all GMO products to be labeled . 
noLabel	The Security Council met and issued a statement and reaffirmed its "strong and unwavering support for the Secretary-General's good offices mission", especially the work by Ibrahim Gambari .	It also "strongly deplored the use of violence against peaceful demonstrations in Myanmar", welcomed the Human Rights Council of 2 October 2007, and emphasized the importance of the early release of all political prisoners and remaining detainees", as well as urging the junta to prepare for a "genuine dialogue" with democratically elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi.
noLabel	Students have access to class-specific online resources, which include an electronic library, textbooks, and other ancillary material required for a course.	The university says that the electronic textbooks include search features and hyperlinks to glossary terms that make the books easier to use for research .
noLabel	On March 24, 1982, the second anniversary of Archbishop Oscar Romero's assassination, Fife, the Reverend of the Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson, declared his congregation a public sanctuary.	Outside his church he posted two banners that read: “This is a Sanctuary for the Oppressed of Central America,” and “Immigration: do not profane the Sanctuary of God.” A rush of churches, synagogues and student groups across the country followed suit, and by 1985 Sanctuary became a national movement with roughly five hundred member-sites across the United States. 
noLabel	The Connecticut closed primary law “[required] voters in any political party primary to be registered members of that party.” The Republican Party of Connecticut, however, wanted to allow independents to vote in the Republican primary if they so chose.	The problem with this closed primary law was that it prevented the Republican Party from allowing independent “registered voters not affiliated with any party to vote in Republican primaries for federal and statewide offices.” Since the Republican Party of Connecticut was not able to choose who it wanted to vote in the primary, the United States Supreme Court, in a 6-3 decision, stated that the closed primary law in Connecticut “impermissibly burdens the right of the Party and its members protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments.” . 
noLabel	ITIC stated that alleged evidences of improper use of protective emblems of the Geneva Conventions, as well as hiding in hospitals, constitute acts prohibited under the Laws of Armed Conflict, e.g., Article 44 of the First Geneva Convention .	Irwin Cotler told The Jerusalem Post that misuse of humanitarian symbols, like using an ambulance to transport fighters or weapons or disguising oneself as a doctor in a hospital, amounts to war crimes . 
noLabel	UK Immigration Service grades are/were reflective of the legislation that stipulates that the decision to refuse a person leave to enter the United Kingdom is taken by an Immigration Officer only with the authority of a Chief Immigration Officer or an HM Immigration Inspector.	The decision that a person inside the UK is in breach of immigration law and liable for administrative removal or deportation can be taken by an Immigration Officer or a caseworker of Executive Officer grade or above acting on behalf of the Secretary of State, with the authority of a Chief Immigration Officer or Higher Executive Officer.
noLabel	Many gun control opponents point to statistics in advertising campaigns purporting that "approximately 9 or so children are killed by people discharging firearms every day across the US," and argue that this statistic is seldom accompanied by a differentiation of those children killed by individuals from unintentional discharges and stray bullets, and of those "children," under the age of majority—which is 18-21 in the U.S.—who are killed while acting as aggressors in street gang related mutual combat or while committing crimes, many of which are seen as arising from the War on Drugs.	There is further controversy regarding courts, trials, and the resulting sentences of these mostly "young men" as adults despite them not having reached the age of consent.
noLabel	The United Nations Research Institute for Social Development (UNRISD)’s 2010 report comes to multiple conclusions, some of which concur with and others that challenge the findings of previous research.	The report claims that inequality has risen partly due to neoliberal economic policies that have made it difficult to have high rates of economic growth without increasing inequality .
noLabel	Today with the help of NGO’s, not-for profit organizations and governments world-wide there is a stronger movement taking place, with a deeper understanding of habitat conservation with the aim of protecting delicate habitats and preserving biodiversity on a global scale.	The commitment and actions of small volunteering association in villages and towns, that endeavour to emulate the work done by well known Conservation Organisations, is paramount in ensuring generations that follow understand the importance of conserving natural resources.
noLabel	On June 14, 2007 Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas announced the dissolution of the former unity government and declared a state of emergency.	He dismissed Ismail Haniya as Prime Minister and appointed Salam Fayyad as the new one, giving him the task of building a new government .
noLabel	Creative Expression: Personal satisfaction also comes from the act of writing software as an equivalent to creative self expression – it is almost equivalent to creating a work of art.	The rediscovery of creativity, which has been lost through the mass production of commercial software products can be a relevant motivation .
noLabel	This is allowed to fall down a shaft into a subterranean, high-roofed chamber where the now-compressed air separates from the water and becomes trapped.	The height of falling water column maintains compression of the air in the top of the chamber, while an outlet, submerged below the water level in the chamber allows water to flow back to the surface at a slightly lower level than the intake.
noLabel	Research has shown time and again that that the wealth and income of parents is a primary factor influencing student achievement.	A low socioeconomic background can have negative effects on a child’s educational achievement before even starting school; indeed, research has shown that the achievement gap is present between races before starting formal education.
noLabel	While at the beginning of the discussion, measures were focused relatively narrowly on specific crimes, above all bribery, the definitions and understanding of corruption have become broader and so have the measures against it.	The Conventions' (not only the UNCAC, but the Inter-American Convention against Corruption, the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention, the African Union Convention on Preventing and Combating Corruption) comprehensive approach and the mandatory character of many of its provisions give proof of this development.
noLabel	Nevertheless, it is evident that any transference of income from a relatively rich man to a relatively poor man of similar temperament, since it enables more intense wants, to be satisfied at the expense of less intense wants, must increase the aggregate sum of satisfaction.	The old "law of diminishing utility" thus leads securely to the proposition: Any cause which increases the absolute share of real income in the hands of the poor, provided that it does not lead to a contraction in the size of the national dividend from any point of view, will, in general, increase economic welfare. 
noLabel	Conference - The Conference Report merged most education aid with the State Fiscal Stabilization fund (administered by the Department of Education)and gave power over the funds to each governor under voluminous restrictions.	The Governor is "Required" to spend $45 billion of the money on education to restore funding to 2008 levels but the mechanisms to enforce state maintenance of effort at 2005-06 levels are complex and potentially impossible to implement .
noLabel	In light of all this, Rousseau argues that, like his native Geneva, small city-states are the form of nation in which freedom can best flourish.	For any state large enough to require intermediaries between the people and the government, an elected aristocracy may be preferable, and in very large states a benevolent monarch; but even monarchical rule, to be legitimate, must be subordinate to the sovereign rule of law.
noLabel	Some researchers recount that past totalitarian regimes passed gun control legislation, which was later followed by confiscation, with Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany during World War II, as well as some communist states being cited as examples .	Location and capture of firearms registration records has also long been a standard doctrine taught to military intelligence officers, and was widely practiced by German and Soviet troops during World War II in the countries they invaded . 
noLabel	Another form of censorship unique to Australia can be found in the Suicide Related Materials Offences Act (2006) that prohibits the use of telephone, email, fax or internet to discuss the practical aspects of assisted suicide or voluntary euthanasia .	The penalty attached to a breach of this aspect of the Australian Criminal Code is a fine of $110,000 (individual) and $550,000 (for an organisation).
noLabel	The refusal of the first three artists to participate was seen as evidence of self-censorship and led to much debate in Denmark, with other examples for similar reasons soon emerging.	Comedian Frank Hvam declared that he would (hypothetically) dare to urinate on the Bible on television, but not on the Qur'an .
noLabel	However, these are investments rather than subsidies; both increase the economic value of the state and affect all as opposed to single groups.	In other cases, governments literally purchase or produce a good (such as bread, wheat, gasoline, or electricity) at a higher cost than the sales price to the public (which may require rationing to control the cost). 
noLabel	Existing research on crime has generally shown that racial or ethnic identity is not predictive of criminal behavior with data which has been controlled for social and economic factors.	" NCF's methodology and statistics are further sharply criticized as flawed and deceptive by anti-racist activists Tim Wise and the Southern Poverty Law Center . 
noLabel	 In an interview with an Israeli radio station, the British Ambassador to the United Nations, John Sawers, supported the findings of the report and called for both Israel and the Palestinians to investigate its conclusions .	During the UN Security Council's meeting, he said that "the Goldstone Report itself did not adequately recognize Israel's right to protect its citizens, nor did it pay sufficient attention to Hamas's actions."
noLabel	Another "major innovation was the introduction of day/night cycles; certain items, characters, and quests are only accessible at certain times of day.	" In 1989, Phantasy Star II for the Genesis established many conventions of the genre, including an epic, dramatic, character-driven storyline dealing with serious themes and subject matter, and a strategy-based battle system . 
noLabel	A minor nuclear war with each country using 50 Hiroshima-sized atom bombs as airbursts on urban areas could produce climate change unprecedented in recorded human history.	A nuclear war between the United States and Russia today could produce nuclear winter, with temperatures plunging below freezing in the summer in major agricultural regions, threatening the food supply for most of the planet.
noLabel	Catholics for Choice, a dissident group, maintains that condom use will prevent the spread of AIDS, since couples will have sex despite Vatican prohibition .	Two bishops share the beliefs of Condoms4Life, and have come out in support of condom use when one partner has AIDS, arguing the Roman Catholic Church's official position on this issue is unconscionable .
noLabel	In January 2011, Boxun revealed that Politburo member responsible for the Propaganda Department, Li Changchun, issued instructions for the Chinese media to downplay social tensions on issues such as land prices, political reform and major disasters or incidents, and to ensure reporting does not show the Communist party negatively.	The Party warned that media must “ensure that the party and government do not become the targets or focus of criticism”, and any mention of political reforms must reflect the government in a favourable light .
noLabel	For example, “only about one fifth of U.S. aid goes to countries classified by the OECD as ‘least developed.’” This “pro-rich” trend is not unique to the United States .	According to Collier, “the middle income countries get aid because they are of much more commercial and political interest than the tiny markets and powerlessness of the bottom billion.” What this means is that, at the most basic level, aid is not targeting the most extreme poverty . 
noLabel	Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs (JCPA) asserts that the rule of distinction permits attacking legitimate targets, even if the attack is expected to cause collateral damage to civilians and even if, in retrospect, the attack was a mistake based on faulty intelligence; moreover, Article 28 of the Fourth Geneva Convention makes clear that the presence of civilians “may not be used to render certain points or areas immune from military operations" .	CSIS report notes that Israel planned its air and air-land campaigns in ways that clearly discriminated between military and civilian targets and that were intended to limit civilian casualties and collateral damage, by systematic and comprehensive use of its IS&R assets, careful mapping, GPS abilities and guidance from targeting experts briefed in the laws and conventions of war; the report concludes that this aspect of the IDF‘s actions met the key legal test that the anticipated military advantage did not outweigh the risk to civilians .
noLabel	1989 Revision of Federal Flag Desecration Statute – Pursuant to the Flag Protection Act of 1989, Congress amended the 1968 federal flag desecration statute in an effort to make it "content neutral" and conform to the Constitutional requirements of Johnson.	As a result, the 1989 Act sought to prohibit flag desecration under all circumstances by deleting the statutory requirement that the conduct cast contempt upon the flag and narrowing the definition of the term "flag" so that its meaning was not based on the observation of third parties. 
noLabel	Acceptance of any one religion thus requires a rejection of the others, and when faced with these competing claims in the absence of a personal revelation, it is argued that it is difficult to decide amongst them.	Were a personal revelation to be granted to a nonbeliever, the same problem of confusion would develop in each new person the believer shares the revelation with.
noLabel	University of Chicago economist Steven Levitt argues that available data indicate that neither stricter gun control laws nor more liberal concealed carry laws have had any significant effect on the decline in crime in the 1990s.	While the debate remains hotly disputed, it is therefore not surprising that a comprehensive review of published studies of gun control, released in November 2004 by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, was unable to determine any reliable statistically significant effect resulting from such laws, although the authors suggest that further study may provide more conclusive information. 
noLabel	Whereas Jeremy Bentham advocated the "use of pain where shame has proved ineffective", Right Realism advocates the principle that nothing deters more than the certainty of detection.	Thus, more proactive policing through policies of zero tolerance to make it safe for citizens to be on the streets and in their homes, and the greater allocation of resources to detection will have more success than the current reactive stance in relation to crimes committed.
noLabel	In only 8 out of the current 27 member states of the European Union (EU) are more than half of the employed population members of a trade union.	In fact, the EU’s four most populated states all have modest levels of unionisation, with Italy at 30%, the UK 29%, Germany 27% and France at only 9%. 
noLabel	McCain would pay for individual tax credits primarily by eliminating the tax break currently offered to employers for providing health insurance to employees .	On October 5, 2008, Douglas Holtz-Eakin, McCain's senior policy adviser, said the tax credits would also be funded in part from eliminating Medicare (United States) fraud and by changing Medicare and Medicaid payment policies to lower the overall cost of medical care .
noLabel	Anabolic steroids also have androgenic and virilizing properties, including the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics such as the growth of the vocal cords, testicles, and body hair (secondary sexual characteristics).	The word anabolic comes from the Greek ἀναβολή anabole, "that which is thrown up, mound", and the word androgenic from the Greek ἀνδρός andros, "of a man" + -γενής -genes, "born". 
noLabel	The game takes place in a fantasy setting, with most of the game's events occurring in the fictional realms of the Mortal Kombat series.	The original takes place in Earthrealm, where a tournament is being held at Shang Tsung's Island, on which seven of its locations serve as stages in the game.
noLabel	Effective with the Constitution Act 1986, no British or other realm government can advise the sovereign on any matters pertinent to New Zealand, meaning that on all matters of the New Zealand state, the monarch is advised solely by New Zealand Ministers of the Crown.	 As the monarch lives predominantly outside of New Zealand, one of the most important of these state duties carried out on the advice of the Prime Minister of New Zealand is the appointment of the Governor-General, who performs most of the Queen's domestic duties in her absence.
noLabel	Economist Paul Krugman wrote in 2007: "For the world economy as a whole — and especially for poorer nations — growing trade between high-wage and low-wage countries is a very good thing..But for American workers the story is much less positive.	In fact, it’s hard to avoid the conclusion that growing U.S. trade with third world countries reduces the real wages of many and perhaps most workers in this country..The trouble now is that these effects may no longer be as modest as they were, because imports of manufactured goods from the third world have grown dramatically — from just 2.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to 6 percent in 2006.
noLabel	At the same time, the greater ease of global travel accelerated the number of economic migrants seeking a better life abroad, often as illegal immigrants.	In many places the suspicion grew that many of those claiming asylum were really economic migrants seeking to gain fraudulently the advantages of refugee status.
noLabel	Many opinions were put forward for the defeat, some relating to perceived difficulties with the Parliamentary Appointment model, others relating to the lack of public engagement or that most Australian were simply happy to keep the status quo.	Some republicans voted no because they did not agree with provisions such as the President being instantly dismissable by the Prime Minister .
noLabel	In Thomas Schelling’s (1966) classic work on deterrence, the concept that military strategy can no longer be defined as the science of military victory is presented.	Instead, it is argued that military strategy was now equally, if not more, the art of coercion, of intimidation and deterrence . 
noLabel	Residents of a British colony specifically established to forestall American territorial aspirations in the Fraser Valley, British Columbians were no strangers to the implications of the American doctrine of Manifest Destiny nor the economic attractions of the United States.	The construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, promised to British Columbia as an inducement to join the new dominion, became a powerful and tangible symbol of the nation's identity, linking the provinces and territories together from east to west in order to counteract the inevitable economic and cultural pull from the south. 
noLabel	Cheats usually make the game easier by providing an unlimited amount of some resource; for example weapons, health, or ammunition; or perhaps the ability to walk through walls .	Other cheats might give access to otherwise unplayable levels or provide unusual or amusing features, like altered game colors or other graphical appearances.
noLabel	The Chief of Staff of the Joint Staff, a 4-star General or Admiral, is the highest ranking military officer in the Japan Self Defense Forces and the Operational Authority over the Japan Self Defense Forces, with directions from the Prime Minister through the Minister of Defense.The chain of Operational Authority runs straight from the Chief of Staff of the Joint Staff to the Commanders of the several Operational Commands.	Currently there are six Operational Commands in the Ground Self Defense Force, one in the Maritime Self Defense Force and one in the Air Self Defense Force. 
noLabel	According to the National Resources Inventory (NRI), about 8,900 square kilometres (2.2 million acres) of land in the United States was developed between 1992 and 2002.	Presently, the NRI classifies approximately 100,000 more square kilometres (40,000 square miles) (an area approximately the size of Kentucky) as developed than the Census Bureau classifies as urban.
noLabel	The game also became the subject of numerous articles and stories on television and in newspapers and magazines, establishing video gaming as a rapidly growing mainstream hobby .	Space Invaders was soon licensed for the Atari VCS (later known as Atari 2600), becoming the first "killer app" and quadrupling the console's sales .
noLabel	Tariq Ali, a British-Pakistani historian and political activist, argues that the concept of new antisemitism amounts to an attempt to subvert the language in the interests of the State of Israel.	He writes that the campaign against "the supposed new 'anti-semitism'" in modern Europe is a "cynical ploy on the part of the Israeli Government to seal off the Zionist state from any criticism of its regular and consistent brutality against the Palestinians..
noLabel	Considered the national epic of Burma, the Yama Zatdaw, an adaptation of India's Ramayana, has been influenced greatly by Thai, Mon, and Indian versions of the play .	Buddhism is practised along with nat worship which involves elaborate rituals to propitiate one from a pantheon of 37 nats . 
noLabel	The centrality of the "separation" concept to the Religion Clauses of the Constitution was made explicit in Everson v. Board of Education, 330 U.S. 1 (1947), a case dealing with a New Jersey law that allowed government funds to pay for transportation of students to both public and Catholic schools.	This was the first case in which the court applied the Establishment Clause to the laws of a state, having interpreted the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment as applying the Bill of Rights to the states as well as the federal legislature.
noLabel	Policy becomes much more oriented toward what will get more aid money than it does towards meeting the needs of the people .	Problems with the aid system and not aid itself are that the aid is excessively directed towards the salaries of consultants from donor countries, the aid is not spread properly, neglecting vital, less publicized area such as agriculture, and the aid is not properly coordinated among donors, leading to a plethora of disconnected projects rather than unified strategies . 
noLabel	In addition to applying to single-winner voting systems (such as used in the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada), a split vote can occur in proportional representation methods that use election thresholds, such as in Germany, New Zealand and Turkey.	In these cases, "fringe" parties that do not meet the threshold can take away votes from larger parties with similar ideologies.
noLabel	Denials of the Holocaust have been regularly promoted by various Arab leaders and in various media throughout the Middle East .	According to Robert Satloff writing in the Washington Post, "A respected Holocaust research institution recently reported that Egypt, Qatar and Saudi Arabia all promote Holocaust denial and protect Holocaust deniers.
noLabel	The recent success of free software projects such as GNU/Linux, Mozilla Firefox, and the Apache web server has demonstrated that quality works can be created even in the absence of a copyright-enforced monopoly rent .	Instead, these products use copyright to enforce their license terms, which are designed to ensure the free nature of the work, rather than securing exclusive rights for the holder for monetary gain; such a license is called a copyleft, free software license, or open source license. 
noLabel	Florida's legislature set the date for its primary on January 31, violating the scheduling guidelines of the Democratic National Committee (DNC).	The DNC has since declared Florida's primary as nonbinding, and therefore an alternate delegate selection system consisting of county caucuses will now take place on May 5, followed by a state convention in June. 
noLabel	Recently, as an implementation policy of the 2009 Affordable Health Care for America Act, the Department of Health and Human Services developed a mandate to require all insurance policies to provide for free contraceptives.	In 2012, the GOP led an attempt to exempt insurance policies sponsored or paid for by religious institutions opposed to birth control on religious or moral grounds, from the mandate to provide free contraceptive care.
noLabel	 In general, practitioners need to weigh opportunities against constraints and consider the potential opportunities to promote social justice, equality, and equity in higher education access.	Rather than considering undocumented students as “illegals” and restricting their access to legitimate educational pathways, it is recommended that, at the very least, those in positions of power adopt an outlaw cultural framework to support the strengths inherent within diversity as well as pursue avenues of social justice for undocumented students who are seeking to access higher education to improve their future and secure permanent membership in U.S. society .
noLabel	Following an unsuccessful bid against the Democratic incumbent for a seat in the United States House of Representatives in 2000, Obama ran for the United States Senate in 2004.	Several events brought him to national attention during the campaign, including his victory in the March 2004 Illinois Democratic primary for the Senate election and his keynote address at the Democratic National Convention in July 2004.
noLabel	The Court have emphasised the fundamental nature of Article 3 in holding that the prohibition is made in "absolute terms .. irrespective of a victim's conduct.	" The Court has also held that states cannot deport or extradite individuals who might be subjected to torture, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, in the recipient state . 
noLabel	Richard Moon has developed the argument that the value of freedom of speech and freedom of expression lies with social interactions.	Moon writes that "by communicating an individual forms relationships and associations with others – family, friends, co-workers, church congregation, and countrymen.
noLabel	Didier might have been able to win the GOP nomination from Rossi in a closed primary that rewards candidates for appealing to the hardline of their base, but the more moderate Rossi was easily able to defeat Didier in the Top Two primary.	While one might expect more Democrats in the Top Two primary to vote tactically for Didier, the Republican candidate who was doing much worse in polls against Murray, most Democrats seemed content voting for Murray.
noLabel	There is reference to tobacco in Persian poem dating from before 1536, but because of the lack of any corroborating sources, the authenticity of the source has been questioned.	The next reliable eyewitness account of tobacco smoking is by a Spanish envoy in 1617, but by this time the practice was already deeply engrained in Persian society.
noLabel	465-460 BC), and Thucydides remarked that "Spartan policy is always mainly governed by the necessity of taking precautions against the helots.	"; the Greek is ambiguous On the other hand, the Spartans trusted their helots enough in 479 BC to take a force 35,000 with them to Plataea, something they could not have risked if they feared the helots would attack them or run away.
noLabel	The letter listed a series of monetary and fiscal measures deemed a "shock program" to end hyperinflation and promote a market economy .	His letter suggested (among other, more specific prescriptions) that a brief period of cutting government spending would reduce its fiscal deficit and thus reduce the rate of increase of the quantity of money in the country that was driving inflation.
noLabel	Whereas at Le Havre all travellers, no matter what their nationality, file in any old fashion past the passport officer without any distinction being made in favour of the French, here from the very outset you are parked on one side.	You draw a false conclusion from it because you fail to see that only a small question of procedure is involved.
noLabel	On 2 March 1962, the military led by General Ne Win took control of Burma through a coup d'état and the government has been under direct or indirect control by the military since then.	Between 1962 and 1974, Burma was ruled by a revolutionary council headed by the general, and almost all aspects of society (business, media, production) were nationalized or brought under government control under the Burmese Way to Socialism which combined Soviet-style nationalisation and central planning with the governmental implementation of superstitious beliefs.
noLabel	Conversion to "trivial" standardized ecosystems (e.g., monoculture following deforestation) effectively destroys habitat for the more diverse species that preceded the conversion.	In some countries lack of property rights or lax law/regulatory enforcement necessarily leads to biodiversity loss (degradation costs having to be supported by the community). 
noLabel	(Unpublicized by the governor was a provision in his tuition grant plan that would require school districts which lost state funds to provide tuition grants.	) All legislators should get behind this legislative program for massive resistance, Stanley concluded, because all Virginians of all races had concluded over the past eight months that there should be no mixing of the races anywhere in the state . 
noLabel	Of the top ten countries accepting resettled refugees in 2006, the United States accepted more than twice as much as the next nine countries combined .	One econometrics report in 2010 by analyst Kusum Mundra suggested that immigration positively affected bilateral trade when the U.S. had a networked community of immigrants, but that the trade benefit was weakened when the immigrants became assimilated into American culture . 
noLabel	One example is Marlboro's Outwit the West, a 'by-invitation if you're a smoker' 4-member team-based 'competition' with a series of cryptic brain teasers.	The top 20 teams get invited to the Marlboro ranch, a location where it's 'okay to smoke' and food, drinks and activities are paid for by the company.
noLabel	" This was in line with an earlier statement by a Facebook spokeswoman, stating that Facebook "may consider IP blocking in Pakistan upon further review of local regulations, standards and customs" .	Pakistan's secretary of IT and telecom said in an interview that Facebook had "apologized" and agreed to block access to the page from Pakistan .
noLabel	Theodore Hall – a young American physicist at Los Alamos, whose identity as a spy was not revealed until very late in the 20th century.	He was never tried for his espionage work, though he seems to have admitted to it in later years to reporters and to his family . 
noLabel	Among current cigarette smokers, an estimated 42.5% had stopped smoking for at least 1 day during the preceding 12 months because they were trying to quit.	Among the estimated 42.5% (or 91.8 million) of people who had smoked at least 100 cigarettes during their lifetimes (the question the CDC asked to measure if they were ever smokers or not), 50.8% (or 46.5 million) did not smoke currently.
noLabel	Subsequently, a case was filed against Haji Yaqoob Qureishi in the Lucknow district court in Uttar Pradesh and demands were made for his dismissal by eminent Muslim scholars in New Delhi .	Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State of the United States accused Iran and Syria of organizing many of the recent protests in Iran, Syria and Lebanon . 
noLabel	A study in 2004 by the Independent Inquiry into Drug Testing at Work found that attempts by employers to force employees to take drug tests could potentially be challenged as a violation of privacy under the Human Rights Act 1998 and Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights .	However, this does not apply to industries where drug testing is a matter of personal and public safety or security rather than productivity.
noLabel	They also discovered that compared to adolescents who ate three or fewer meals per week, those who ate four to five family meals per week were 19% less likely to report poor consumption of vegetables, 22% less likely to report poor consumption of fruits, and 19% less likely to report poor consumption of dairy foods.	Adolescents who ate six to seven family meals per week, compared to those who ate three or fewer family meals per week, were 38% less likely to report poor consumption of vegetables, 31% less likely to report poor consumption of fruits, and 27% less likely to report poor consumption of dairy foods .
noLabel	In The God Delusion, Dawkins contends that a supernatural creator almost certainly does not exist and that belief in a personal god qualifies as a delusion, which he defines as a persistent false belief held in the face of strong contradictory evidence.	He is sympathetic to Robert Pirsig's statement in Lila that "when one person suffers from a delusion it is called insanity.
noLabel	Alaska Department of Transportation spokesman Roger Wetherell disagreed, stating that Palin could have canceled the contract upon taking office and reimbursed contractors for any expenses incurred in association with the project, as happened when Palin cancelled a $18.6 million contract on a Juneau road and reimbursed the contractor for $65,500 in expenses.	Federal Highway Administration spokesman Doug Hecox stated that Palin could have opted not to use the federal earmark, which would have allowed Congress the opportunity to send it to other federal needs .
noLabel	In 2006, there were eight sites identified as potential test explosion sites for current (and future) tests according to a statement by the South Korean Parliament.	These sites are distinguished from a number of other nuclear materials production facilities in that they are thought to be most closely identified with a military, or potentially military purpose: . 
noLabel	The , ENVIRONET, promotes and facilitates the integration of environment and climate change into all aspects of development co-operation, as called for by the Paris Declaration and the Accra Agenda for Action.	Building on lessons learned and best practices, the Network works towards enhancing policy co-ordination and coherence to achieve more rapid progress towards the Millennium Development Goals and creating a successful shift towards “green growth”. 
noLabel	Although the archaeological record shows clearly that multiple cultures and kingdoms existed in the area that was to become China, Chinese archaeologists continue to date all Bronze Age sites to the Xia, Shang or Zhou, implying that the territory controlled today belonged to the ancestors of the current Chinese state.	In Chinese schools today the concept is not taught explicitly, but by tracing the origins of the Chinese state to the Xia, Shang and Zhou, rather than emphasizing the diversity of the actual archaeological record, the Chinese education system continues to promote the idea of the Mandate of Heaven.
noLabel	Georg Franck at Vienna University of Technology, says that advertising is part of what he calls "mental capitalism", taking up a term (mental) which has been used by groups concerned with the mental environment, such as Adbusters.	Franck blends the "Economy of Attention" with Christopher Lasch’s culture of narcissm into the mental capitalism: In his essay "Advertising at the Edge of the Apocalypse", Sut Jhally writes: "20th century advertising is the most powerful and sustained system of propaganda in human history and its cumulative cultural effects, unless quickly checked, will be responsible for destroying the world as we know it .
noLabel	Donors must support developing countries in building up their capacity to exercise this kind of leadership by strengthening local expertise, institutions and management systems.	The target set by the Paris Declaration is for three-quarters of developing countries to have their own national development strategies by 2010. 
noLabel	The use of the word "capitalism" in reference to an economic system appears twice in Volume I of Das Kapital, p.&nbsp;124 (German edition), and in Theories of Surplus Value, tome II, p.&nbsp;493 (German edition).	Marx did not extensively use the form capitalism, but instead those of capitalist and capitalist mode of production, which appear more than 2600 times in the trilogy Das Kapital. 
noLabel	New Mexico homeschooling parent Sandra Dodd proposed the term "Radical Unschooling" to emphasize the complete rejection of any distinction between educational and non-educational activities .	Radical Unschooling emphasizes that unschooling is a non-coercive, cooperative practice, and seeks to promote those values in all areas of life.
noLabel	The United Methodist Church, holds that "each couple has the right and the duty prayerfully and responsibly to control conception according to their circumstances."	Its Resolution on Responsible Parenthood states that in order to "support the sacred dimensions of personhood, all possible efforts should be made by parents and the community to ensure that each child enters the world with a healthy body, and is born into an environment conducive to realization of his or her potential."
noLabel	The International Conference on Nuclear Disarmament took place in Oslo in February 2008, and was organized by The Government of Norway, the Nuclear Threat Initiative and the Hoover Institute.	The Conference was entitled Achieving the Vision of a World Free of Nuclear Weapons and had the purpose of building consensus between nuclear weapon states and non-nuclear weapon states in relation to the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty . 
noLabel	Others argue that there is a trade-off between equality and efficiency, arguing that redistribution functions as a transaction cost, reducing overall economic output, and should only be done up to the point that the welfare gains from redistribution equal the welfare costs of decreased efficiency (the marginal benefit equals the marginal cost).	This view is particularly advanced by , which uses the metaphor of a , with the water representing wealth or income, and leakage representing efficiency loss.
noLabel	On November 1, 2007, Common Sense Media protested to the Federal Trade Commission about the ESRB's rating downgrade of a revised version of Manhunt 2 from "Adults Only" to "Mature".	It protested on the basis that the revised version of the game, which was censored to prevent the game from remaining banned in both countries, was still banned in the UK via the ratings given by the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC).
noLabel	A foundation of American political thought during the Revolutionary period was the well justified concern about political corruption and governmental tyranny.	Even the federalists, fending off their opponents who accused them of creating an oppressive regime, were careful to acknowledge the risks of tyranny.
noLabel	On 9 November 1799 (18 Brumaire of the Year VIII) Napoleon Bonaparte staged the coup of 18 Brumaire which installed the Consulate.	This effectively led to Bonaparte's dictatorship and eventually (in 1804) to his proclamation as Empereur (emperor), which brought to a close the specifically republican phase of the French Revolution .
noLabel	Water licenses issued by the BC Ministry of Environment, enabling developers to legally divert rivers, have not included clauses that specify changing water entitlements in response to altered conditions; this fact means that conflicts will arise over the water needed to sustain aquatic life and generate power when river flow becomes more variable or decreases in the future .	However, it should also be noted that under section 101 of the BC Water Act, regulations regarding a water licenses can be changed by the government at any time, including the amount of water that a power plant is required to release to protect aquatic life .
noLabel	Although EDF claimed that a security firm had only been employed to monitor Greenpeace, the court disagreed, jailing the head and deputy head of EDF's nuclear security operation for three years each.	Two employees of the security firm, Kargus, run by a former member of France's secret services, received sentences of three and two years respectively .
noLabel	Marxism provides a systematic theoretical basis upon which to interrogate social structural arrangements, and the hypothesis that economic power is translated into political power substantially accounts for the general dis empowerment of the majority who live in the modern state and the limitations of political discourse.	Hence, whether directly or indirectly, it informs much of the research into social phenomena not only in criminology, but also in semiotics and the other disciplines which explore the structural relationships of power, knowledge, meaning, and positional interests within society. 
noLabel	Another aspect of family planning in China due to the one-child policy is the differentiation between the desire for male and female children in both urban and rural locations.	In the Chinese culture, the desire for a male child is much harder, making the abandonment or abortion of female infants or fetuses common in the rural areas of the nation .
noLabel	Lasn and Shmalz were outraged by the use of the public airwaves to deliver what they felt was deceptive anti-environmentalist propaganda.	And they responded by producing the " Talking Rainforest " anti-ad in which an old-growth tree explains to a sapling that "a tree farm is not a forest."
noLabel	Wind power in Scotland is the country's fastest growing renewable energy technology, with 2574 MW of installed capacity as of April 2011 .	The Robin Rigg Wind Farm is a 180 MW development completed in April 2010, which is Scotland's first offshore wind farm, sited on a sandbank in the Solway Firth .
noLabel	In January 2009, WikiLeaks released 86 telephone intercept recordings of Peruvian politicians and businessmen involved in the 2008 Peru oil scandal .	In February, WikiLeaks released 6,780 Congressional Research Service reports followed in March, by a list of contributors to the Norm Coleman senatorial campaign and a set of documents belonging to Barclays Bank that had been ordered removed from the website of The Guardian .
noLabel	Even so, studies have shown that it is easier for a white male to get a job than it is for an equally qualified man of color or woman of any race.	Many positions are cycled, where a company fills a position with a worker and then lays them off and hires a new person, repeating until they find someone they feel is "suitable" -- which is often not a minority . 
noLabel	TBI also has a substantial impact on the functioning of family systems Caregiving family members and TBI survivors often significantly alter their familial roles and responsibilities following injury, creating significant change and strain on a family system.	Typical challenges identified by families recovering from TBI include: frustration and impatience with one another, loss of former lives and relationships, difficulty setting reasonable goals, inability to effectively solve problems as a family, increased level of stress and household tension, changes in emotional dynamics, and overwhelming desire to return to pre-injury status.
noLabel	It was asked that following the election: "How much power and reach would she still have to rally her followers barely a week after the south-east Asian nation's first general election in two decades?"	One such reason was because the NLD's boycott may have failed if it does not play the right cards in dealing with at least a semblance of an elected opposition in a "semi-legitimate" parliament.
noLabel	Forest Day began as a casual conversation in Oxford, England, in February 2007, between two scientists who felt the world was underestimating the importance of forests in mitigating carbon emissions and saw a glaring need for the latest forestry research and thinking to inform global policy makers and UNFCCC negotiators.	They did not foresee that the conference would become one of the most influential global events on forests and climate change today . 
noLabel	Charles Schenck was the Secretary of the Socialist Party of America and was responsible for printing, distributing, and mailing to prospective military draftees during World War I, including 15,000 leaflets that advocated opposition to the draft.	These leaflets contained statements such as; "Do not submit to intimidation", "Assert your rights", "If you do not assert and support your rights, you are helping to deny or disparage rights which it is the solemn duty of all citizens and residents of the United States to retain," on the grounds that military conscription constituted involuntary servitude, which is prohibited by the Thirteenth Amendment. 
noLabel	The Pentagon Papers, officially titled United States – Vietnam Relations, 1945–1967: A Study Prepared by the Department of Defense, is a United States Department of Defense history of the United States' political-military involvement in Vietnam from 1945 to 1967.	The papers were first brought to the attention of the public on the front page of the New York Times in 1971 .
noLabel	One law firm employs so-called "power brokers" including former Treasury department officials such as Marti Thomas, former presidential advisers such as Daniel Meyer .	There was a report that two law firms were treating their lobbying groups as separate business units, and giving the non-lawyer lobbyists an equity stake in the firm . 
noLabel	Irrigation – water in an irrigation reservoir may be released into networks of canals for use in farmlands or secondary water systems.	Irrigation may also be supported by reservoirs which maintain river flows allowing water to be abstracted for irrigation lower down the river . 
noLabel	American, French and British nuclear submarines are believed to carry at least some missiles with these types of high-tech warheads for this purpose - potentially allowing a strike as low as one kiloton (or less) against a single target.	Only the People's Republic of China and the Republic of India have declarative, unqualified, unconditional "no first use" nuclear weapons policies. 
noLabel	In March 2010 the department had seen 55 cases that year, compared to 20 to 25 cases normally seen in an entire year .According to the United Nations Development Programme, the average life expectancy in the Gaza Strip is 72 .	As part of the Palestinian territories, the Gaza Strip places 24th out of 135 countries according to Human Poverty Index .
noLabel	How does a woman determine her primary activity when she is preparing dinner while putting the laundry away, making coffee for her spouse, having coffee and chatting with him, and attending to the children”.	Some activities may not even be considered work, such as playing with a child (this has been categorized as developmental care work), by the caregiver, and so may not be included in the responses to a study .
noLabel	People who live close to nature can be dependent on the survival of all the species in their environment, leaving them highly exposed to extinction risks.	However, people prioritize day-to-day survival over species conservation; with human overpopulation in tropical developing countries, there has been enormous pressure on forests due to subsistence agriculture, including slash-and-burn agricultural techniques that can reduce endangered species's habitats . 
noLabel	It was released on the 17th of December in Japan or will be released on either the 15th (First edition bundle) or on the 22nd of February in North America (3G/ Wifi Vita, release bundle Vita, or the WiFi only Vita),and also in the Middle East, Australia and Europe .	Sony is looking to have up to forty launch titles for the western release and up to 100 within the release window .
noLabel	Extra neutrons stabilize heavy elements because they add to strong-force binding (which acts between all nucleons), without adding to proton–proton repulsion.	Fission products have, on average, about the same ratio of neutrons and protons as their parent nucleus, and are therefore usually unstable to beta decay (which changes neutrons to protons) because they have proportionally too many neutrons compared to stable isotopes of similar mass. 
noLabel	Lobbyists seeking to downgrade the designation hired influential foreign affairs officials, including former CIA directors, a former FBI director, and others to advocate for the change of designation .	But there have been others accused of illegally lobbying for foreign nations or who failed to register as a foreign agent who may face prison time as a result.
noLabel	Regarding the current legal test for violations of Section 13, which is whether messages were "likely to expose" identifiable groups to "hatred or contempt," neither truth nor intent is a defence, unlike libel law.	Moon recommended that intent to advocate or justify violence be made a requirement for Section 13, replacing the test of "likely to expose."
noLabel	This massive expansion was driven by the need to maintain control not only of people arriving in the UK who had been refused, but also by the dramatic rise of enforcement within the UK over the period.	The removal of those whose asylum claims had failed became the top priority but the job of tracing and detaining failed asylum seekers was only the beginning of an often tortuous process of dealing with many barriers to their removal.
noLabel	Brown's family hired Gene Warfield, an American ex-special forces soldier who had lived in Okinawa for 17 years, as a consultant to assist them in "looking into the allegations levied against Michael (Brown)."	On the evening of May 7, as Warfield, his Japanese wife, and daughter arrived at a restaurant on Okinawa, a man attacked Warfield with a knife, injuring him slightly.
noLabel	Much of this highly radioactive material then falls to earth, subjecting anything within the line of sight to radiation, a significant hazard.	A fallout shelter is designed to allow its occupants to minimize exposure to harmful fallout until radioactivity has decayed to a safer level. 
noLabel	The smaller Cold Lake deposits are important because some of the oil is fluid enough to be extracted by conventional methods.	All three Alberta areas are suitable for production using in-situ methods, such as cyclic steam stimulation (CSS) and steam assisted gravity drainage (SAGD). 
noLabel	Child pornography, hate speech, and sites that encourage the theft of intellectual property are blocked in many countries throughout the world .	In fact, many countries throughout the world, including some democracies with long traditions of strong support for freedom of expression and freedom of the press, are engaged in some amount of online censorship, often with substantial public support .
noLabel	In addition, a significant number of counterfeit products are sold as anabolic steroids, in particular via mail order from websites posing as overseas pharmacies.	In the U.S., black-market importation continues from Mexico, Thailand, and other countries where steroids are more easily available, as they are legal .
noLabel	He criticized the idea that the disadvantaged could not and would not save for the future, or that they had no motivation to improve their condition.	He opposed "compulsory saving," which he preferred to call "special taxation," and, like modern supply-side economists, stressed the detrimental effects of high taxes on economic activity.
noLabel	As a result of the 2011 Wisconsin protests and subsequent recall elections, the Wisconsin Republican Party is openly encouraging spoiler candidates to run in the recall elections on the Democrat ticket in order to force the Democrats into a Primary election.	Republicans argue that this will even the playing field in the recalls, as incumbents facing recall will not have the time to campaign due to their work load in the state senate .
noLabel	Many international lawyers, in addition, believe that the Declaration forms part of customary international law and is a powerful tool in applying diplomatic and moral pressure to governments that violate any of its articles.	The 1968 United Nations International Conference on Human Rights advised that it "constitutes an obligation for the members of the international community" to all persons.
noLabel	ALG promotes a free-market approach to the American public school system based on vouchers or charter schools, arguing that competition among schools will increase both the quality and the economic efficiency of public education .	The organization claims that privatizing American schools will decrease education spending, promote accountability in school administration, and permit parents a greater degree of control over the schools their children attend.
noLabel	The ability to export power to neighboring countries depends on the availability of transmission lines with sufficient capacity and of the willingness to buy electricity at the price offered.	In 2010 transmission lines were under construction to Sudan with financing from the World Bank (200 MW)  and to Djibouti with financing from the African Development Bank (200 MW) .
noLabel	The advantage of this approach in the United States is that many states offer incentives to offset the cost of installation of a renewable energy system.	In California, Massachusetts and several other U.S. states, a new approach to community energy supply called Community Choice Aggregation has provided communities with the means to solicit a competitive electricity supplier and use municipal revenue bonds to finance development of local green energy resources.
noLabel	The freedom to form, declare membership in, or campaign for candidates from a political party is considered a measurement of a state's adherence to liberal democracy as a political value.	Regulation of parties may run from a crackdown on or repression of all opposition parties, a norm for authoritarian governments, to the repression of certain parties which hold or promote ideals which run counter to the general ideology of the state's incumbents (or possess membership by-laws which are legally unenforceable). 
noLabel	5) A radically reformed educational system, based on the MBTI personality types, and insights from radical innovators like Rudolf Steiner and Maria Montessori.	Revenue coming in from 100% Inheritance Tax should primarily be invested into the educational system, the bedrock of a true Meritocracy. 
noLabel	The game's designer, John Romero, has pointed out that this is so the player feels more involved in the game: "There was never a name for the DOOM marine because it's supposed to be YOU.	" At its core, the gameplay is similar to classic shooter games (such as Space Invaders), presenting the player with the challenge of surviving while shooting every enemy in sight, but with its pseudo-3D first-person perspective giving environments a spatial representation that has a major effect on the level design and gameplay experience . 
noLabel	In 2006, the United States Department of Education released a report concluding that average test scores for reading and mathematics, when adjusted for student and school characteristics, tend to be very similar among public schools and private schools.	If results were left unadjusted for factors such as race, gender, and free or reduced price lunch program eligibility, private schools performed significantly better than public schools . 
noLabel	In many places, pumped storage hydroelectricity is used to even out the daily generating load, by pumping water to a high storage reservoir during off-peak hours and weekends, using the excess base-load capacity from coal or nuclear sources.	During peak hours, this water can be used for hydroelectric generation, often as a high value rapid-response reserve to cover transient peaks in demand.
noLabel	Victims of retaliation against union organizing and other concerted activities to improve working conditions have six months to make complaints to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB).	Private sector employees have either 180 or 300 days to make complaints to the federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (depending on whether their state has a "deferral" agency) for discrimination claims on the basis of race, gender, age, national origin or religion.
noLabel	Testing positive can lead to bail not being granted, or if bail has already been granted, to bail revocation or other sanctions.	Arizona also adopted a law in 1987 authorizing mandatory drug testing of felony arrestees for the purpose of informing the pretrial release decision, and the District of Columbia has had a similar law since the 1970s.
noLabel	Oil sands reserves have only recently been considered to be part of the world's oil reserves, as higher oil prices and new technology enable them to be profitably extracted and upgraded to usable products.	They are often referred to as unconventional oil or crude bitumen, in order to distinguish the bitumen extracted from oil sands from the free-flowing hydrocarbon mixtures known as crude oil traditionally produced from oil wells. 
noLabel	33,943 students aged 15, from 24 countries, completed a self-administered, anonymous, classroom survey, consisting of a standard questionnaire, developed by the HBSC (Health Behaviour in School-aged Children) international research network.	The survey revealed that the majority of the students were still virgins (they had no experience of sexual intercourse), and, among those who were sexually active, the majority (82%) used contraception .
noLabel	As there is no written constitution, there is no constitutional principle of freedom of religious exercise as there is in other countries, such as Germany and the United States.	However, under various laws, such as the Human Rights Act 1998 and the Equality Act 2010, religious groups are free to associate, worship, promote and publish their views alongside the established churches .
noLabel	Starting in the 17th century, Christian families living under the Ottoman rule began to submit their sons into the Kapikulu system willingly, as they saw this as a potentially invaluable career opportunity for their children.	Eventually the Sultan turned to foreign volunteers from the warrior clans of Circassians in southern Russia to fill his Janissary armies.
noLabel	In 1885, Ybor moved again, buying land near the then-small city of Tampa, Florida and building the largest cigar factory in the world at the time in the new company town of Ybor City.	Friendly rival and Flor de Sánchez y Haya owner Ignacio Haya built his own factory nearby in the same year, and many other cigar manufacturers soon followed, especially after an 1886 fire that gutted much of Key West.
noLabel	RSP levels were reduced in every venue that permitted smoking before the law was implemented, including venues in which only second-hand smoke from an adjacent room was observed at baseline .	The CDC concluded that their results were similar to other studies which also showed substantially improved indoor air quality after smoking bans were instituted. 
noLabel	" In Speaker Boehner's home state of Ohio, Obama gave a speech described as "fiery" in a Columbus high school that led to the audience chanting: "Pass this bill!	" In a campaign-style rally at North Carolina State University, Obama told college students "Every single one of you can help make this bill a reality.
noLabel	Finnish Criminal Code 515/2003 (enacted January 31, 2003) makes "committing a crime against a person, because of his national, racial, ethnical or equivalent group" an aggravating circumstance in sentencing .	In addition, ethnic agitation () is criminalized and carries a fine or a prison sentence of not more than two years.
noLabel	Even with these new numbers it is increasingly accepted that mitigation of global warming will not be achieved without the inclusion of forests in an international regime.	As a result, it is expected to play a crucial role in a future successor agreement to the Kyoto Protocol .
noLabel	The Convention is drafted in broad terms, in a similar (albeit more modern) manner to the English Bill of Rights, the American Bill of Rights, the French Declaration of the Rights of Man or the first part of the German Basic law.	Statements of principle are, from a legal point of view, not determinative and require extensive interpretation by courts to bring out meaning in particular factual situations.
noLabel	According to some theistic scholars, agnosticism is impossible in actual practice, since a person can live only either as if God did not exist (etsi Deus non daretur), or as if God did exist (etsi Deus daretur) .	These scholars believe that each day in a person’s life is an unavoidable step towards death, and thus not to decide for or against God, whom they view as the all-encompassing foundation, purpose, and meaning of life, is to decide in favor of atheism .
noLabel	Also in Ontario, wind farms near residential homes have attracted various protests and lawsuits from homeowners up to $1.5 million over health claims and damage to property values.	A moratorium on offshore wind farms in Lake Ontario has also led to a lawsuit from Trillium Wind Power for $2.25 billion . 
noLabel	Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard has stated that the Department of Defence will investigate the content of the leaks to examine what the implications are for Australia which had 1,500 troops deployed in Afghanistan .	This investigation concluded in October 2010 and found that the leaked documents "had not had a direct significant adverse impact on Australia's national interests" . 
noLabel	The Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), for example, imposes a 15-day suspension from racing on any male athlete found to have an HCT above 50% and hemoglobin concentration above 17 grams per deciliter (g/dL).	A few athletes naturally have high RBC concentrations (polycythemia), which they must demonstrate through a series of consistently high hematocrit and hemoglobin results over an extended period of time. 
noLabel	When apartheid was the official policy in South Africa, many sports people, particularly in rugby union, adopted the conscientious approach that they should not appear in competitive sports there.	Some feel this was an effective contribution to the eventual demolition of the policy of apartheid, others feel that it may have prolonged and reinforced its worst effects . 
noLabel	While historically presidents initiated the process for going to war, they asked for and received formal war declarations from Congress for the War of 1812, the Mexican–American War, the Spanish–American War, World War I, and World War II, although President Theodore Roosevelt's military move into Panama in 1903 did not get Congressional assent .	In the early days after the North Korean invasion of 1950, President Truman described the American response as a "police action" .
noLabel	as a percentage of total abortions in the United States have increased every year since the approval of Mifepristone: 1.0% in 2000, 2.9% in 2001, 5.2% in 2002, 7.9% in 2003, 9.3% in 2004, 9.9% in 2005, 10.6% in 2006, 13.1% in 2007, (15.9% of those at less than 9 weeks gestation) .	A Guttmacher Institute survey of abortion providers estimated that medical nonsurgical abortions accounted for 13% of total abortions in the United States in 2005 .
noLabel	These cases were referred to Croydon for consideration and the prospect of enforcing the person’s departure was remote given the ever increasing length of time that asylum applications were taking to be resolved.	Where, like all law enforcement agencies, the officers are judged by their results, there was a positive disincentive to target nationalities with a high incidence of asylum claims.
noLabel	A 2006 follow-up study revealed that the percentage of programs that taught circumcision and also taught administration of topical or local anesthetic had increased to 97% .	However, the authors of the follow-up study also noted that only 84% of these programs used anesthetic "frequently or always" when the procedure was conducted . 
noLabel	The Royal Prerogative also extends to foreign affairs: the sovereign or the Governor-General negotiates and ratifies treaties, alliances, and international agreements, on the advice of the Cabinet.	The Governor-General, on behalf of the Queen, also accredits New Zealand High Commissioners and ambassadors, and receives similar diplomats from foreign states.
noLabel	According to George Bisharat, a professor at Hastings College of the Law, Israel's blockade of Gaza was illegal, and enforcing the blockade in international waters was similarly illegal.	Bisharat wrote that "flotilla passengers were entitled to defend themselves against Israel's forcible boarding of the Mavi Marmara, whether or not Israeli commandos fired immediately on landing on the ship's deck" . 
noLabel	As photographs testify, Jews disembarked at the railway stations at Auschwitz and other extermination camps carrying sacks and suitcases, clearly having no idea of the fate that awaited them.	Rumours of the reality of the extermination camps filtered back only slowly to the ghettos, and were usually not believed, just as they were not believed when couriers such as Jan Karski, the Polish resistance fighter, conveyed them to the western Allies .
noLabel	Restitution rights are of key importance to IDPs and refugees around the world, and important to try preventing aggressors benefiting from conflict .	However, without a clear understanding of each local context, full restitution rights can be unworkable and fail to protect the people it is designed to protect for the following reasons, refugees and IDPs:
noLabel	This was related to me by Billy Sample, and it is the first reference to Shakespeare (no matter how common) I have ever known to emanate from a baseball clubhouse.	Last year, the former Yankee Chad Curtis said on HBO's Costas Now that he believed 85 percent of current big-leaguers use illegal energy-enhancing drugs.
noLabel	targeted oversampling of black Caribbean, black African, Indian, and Pakistani groups (the Natsal ethnic minority boost) were combined with the main &#91;Natsal II&#93; survey data", it was found that the prevalence of circumcision in the UK is age-graded, with 11.7% of those aged 16–19 years circumcised and 19.6% of those aged 40–44 years .	There is a clear ethnic division: "With the exception of black Caribbeans, men from all ethnic minority backgrounds were significantly &#91;(3.02 times)&#93; more likely to report being circumcised compared to men who described their ethnicity as white".
noLabel	Marijuana is the most popular drug in Australia tried by more than 7 million Australians in a lifetime, with ecstasy being the second most popular tried by 2 million people.	By age 20, 37% of the population have tried illicit drugs, and by age 40, this is just shy of 60% .
noLabel	The English king James I was one of the first outspoken skeptics and wrote A Counterblaste to Tobacco, an unforgiving literary assault on what he believed was a menace to society.	Though rife with, at times, irrelevant and partial arguments, it did address some of the health issues and pointed out the peculiar fact that tobacco was frequently assigned conflicting, and at times almost miraculous, properties:
noLabel	In contrast, pay equity implicitly recognizes how difficult it is to break down gender barriers in the workforce, and instead aims to increase the pay of predominantly female occupations.	Employment equity also addresses the situation of Aboriginal people, visible minorities, and people with disabilities, whereas pay equity addresses solely the dilemma that predominantly female occupations tend to be underpaid.
noLabel	Many campaigns by the alcoholic beverage industry that advocate responsible drinking presuppose that drinking for recreational purposes is a positive activity and reinforce this idea as an example of sensible consumption.	Persons who believe alcohol can never simultaneously be used "sensibly" and recreationally would obviously disagree with the focus or direction of these campaigns. 
noLabel	Aside of technicums and PTU there also were vocational schools (Russian: Профессиональные училища) that also provided a middle level of vocational education.	In Ukraine of 1920-30s technicums were a (technical) vocational institutes, however, during the 1930-32s Soviet educational reform they were degraded in their accreditation. 
noLabel	Illegal immigration from Africa to Israel (often also referred to as Infiltration from Africa to Israel by the Israeli media and by Israeli government organisations) is the name of a phenomenon that began in the second half of the 2000s in which a large number of Illegal immigrants from Africa entered Israel illegally, mainly through the fenced border between Israel and Egypt.	According to the data of the Israeli Interior Ministry, the number of these illegal immigrants amounted to 26,635 people to July 2010 . 
noLabel	Palestinian officials in the West Bank shut down a children's orchestra and banished its conductor in March 2009 after they performed for elderly Holocaust survivors.	In August of that year, Palestinian officials in Gaza angrily reacted against UN officials who suggested including information about the Holocaust at their schools.
noLabel	The United Kingdom's largest public-share offerings were privatizations of British Telecom and British Gas during the 1980s under the Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher, when many state-run firms were sold off to the private sector.	This attracted very mixed views from the public and parliament, and even a former Conservative prime minister, Harold Macmillan, was critical of the policy; likening it to "selling the family silver" .There were around 3,000,000 shareholders in Britain when Thatcher took office in 1979, but the subsequent sale of state-run firms saw the level of shareholders double to 6,000,000 by 1985 and by the time of her resignation as prime minister in 1990 there were more than 10,000,000 shareholders in Britain . 
noLabel	The spread of Christianity changed women's lives in many ways by requiring a man to have only one wife and keep her for life, condemning the infidelity of men as well as women and doing away with marriage of prepubescent girls .	Because Christianity outlawed infanticide and because women were more likely than men to convert, there were soon more Christian women than men whereas the opposite was true among pagans .
noLabel	It remains however the generally accepted formula, with most states declining to get involved in disputes between governments and deposed monarchs and simply stating that they are doing no more than recognising tradition, not supporting claims to a defunct throne.	Other states have no problem with deposed monarchs being so referred to by former title, and even allow them to travel internationally on the state's diplomatic passport. 
noLabel	ASEAN has concluded free trade agreements with China (expecting bilateral trade of $500&nbsp;billion by 2015), Korea, Japan, Australia, New Zealand and most recently India .	The agreement with People's Republic of China created the ASEAN–China Free Trade Area (ACFTA), which went into full effect on 1 January 2010.
noLabel	Increases in employment without increases in productivity leads to a rise in the number of "working poor", which is why some experts are now promoting the creation of "quality" and not "quantity" in labour market policies .	This approach does highlight how higher productivity has helped reduce poverty in East Asia, but the negative impact is beginning to show .
noLabel	The Juárez Cartel controls one of the primary transportation routes for billions of dollars worth of illegal drug shipments annually entering the United States from Mexico .	Since 2007, the Juárez Cartel has been locked in a vicious battle with its former partner, the Sinaloa Cartel, for control of Ciudad Juárez.
noLabel	In contrast, there are numerous countries that have several years between their school leaving age and their legal minimum employment age, thus in some cases preventing any such transition for several years.	Countries which have their employment age set below the school leaving age (mostly developing countries), risk giving children the opportunity to leave their education early to earn money for their families. 
noLabel	In another instance, a cross-sectional statistical analysis was conducted to see whether social class affected participation in the United States Armed Forces during the Vietnam War; a report in Time Magazine by MIT suggested that soldiers came from a variety of social classes, and that the principle of equal opportunity had worked, possibly because soldiers had been chosen by a lottery process for conscription.	In college admissions, equality of outcome can be measured directly by comparing offers of admission given to different groups of applicants; for example, there have been reports in newspapers of discrimination against Asian-Americans regarding college admissions in the United States which suggest that Asian-American applicants need higher grades and test scores to win admission to prestigious universities than other ethnic groups .
noLabel	Copeland Lowery said in a written statement that "Partners Bill Lowery, Jean Denton, and Letitia White will continue to lead the existing full service consulting firm, while partners James M. Copeland and Lynn Jacquez will form a separate partnership."	The Democrats and the Republicans in the firm were already operating separately for the most part: The Republicans worked on the eighth floor of the downtown District of Columbia building they occupy, and the Democrats worked on the fifth floor . 
noLabel	On 15 November 1989, John Paul II addressed the 4th International Conference of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers in the following terms : it seems profoundly damaging to the dignity of the human being, and for this reason morally illicit, to support a prevention of AIDS that is based on a recourse to means and remedies that violate an authentically human sense of sexuality, and which are a palliative to the deeper suffering which involve the responsibility of individuals and of society.	 This was interpreted in May 1990 by the Roman Catholic bishops of Madagascar as a "solemn reminder" giving ground for their view that in the context of positions such as that of cardinal Lustiger who stated that it was a "lesser evil", "the condom remains a 'moral evil'" . 
noLabel	The AGA was founded in 1995 with the goal of promoting, educating and lobbying on behalf of the gaming entertainment industry through education and advocacy.	They address federal legislative and regulatory issues affecting its members and their employees and customers, such as federal taxation, regulatory issues, and travel and tourism matters. 
noLabel	Non-television advertising campaigns were still allowed in the UK but came under stricter guidelines in 1986, which in particular, prevented adverts from actually showing a person smoking.	The tobacco producers responded with increasingly indirect and abstract campaigns, among which those of Benson & Hedges and Silk Cut became particularly recognisable.
noLabel	The essential question in the gun policy debate is, "Will restrictions on gun ownership (or, for a particular proposed law, will this restriction) cause violent crime to decrease?"	Debate attends even this question, with some claiming that overall reduction in violent crime is the goal, while others claiming that reduction in gun-crime is a good in itself (even if replaced by equal numbers of, say, knife-crime) because of the gun's assumed higher potential for lethality . 
noLabel	Instant-runoff voting (IRV), also known as the alternative vote (AV) or transferable voting, is an electoral system used to elect one winner.	It is a form of preferential voting (or ranked choice voting) in which voters rank the candidates in order of preference, and their ballots are counted as one vote for their first choice candidate.
noLabel	Furthermore, he suggests many endangered species which are of high conservation value, may only be restricted to small isolated patches of habitat, and thus would be overlooked if larger areas were given a higher priority.	The shift to conserving larger areas is somewhat justified in society by placing more value on larger vertebrate species, which naturally have larger habitat requirements.
noLabel	Obama's speech aired in the United States on 11 television networks during primetime, including ABC, CBS, NBC, CNN, Fox News Channel, Fox Business Network, MSNBC, and CNBC.	Nielsen Media Research estimate that 31.4 million viewers watched the speech, 10 million less than the 2011 State of the Union Address, but six million more than his March speech on Libya .
noLabel	The weapons, often generically referred to as Qassams, were initially crude and short-range, mainly affecting the Israeli city of Sderot and other communities bordering the Gaza Strip.	However, in 2006 more sophisticated rockets began to be deployed, reaching the larger coastal city of Ashkelon, and by early 2009 major cities Ashdod and Beersheba had been hit by Katyusha and Grad rockets,and in 2011-2012 to the cities of Kiryat Gat and Gadera. 
noLabel	Consequently, the sex ratio tends to reduce as age increases, and among the elderly there is usually an excess of females.	For example, the male to female ratio falls from 1.05 for the group aged 15 to 65 to 0.70 for the group over 65 in Germany, from 1.00 to 0.72 in the USA, from 1.06 to 0.91 in mainland China and from 1.07 to 1.02 in India, which has a smaller proportion of very old people. 
noLabel	A healthy body requires a minimum amount of fat for the proper functioning of the hormonal, reproductive, and immune systems, as thermal insulation, as shock absorption for sensitive areas, and as energy for future use.	But the accumulation of too much storage fat can impair movement and flexibility, and can alter the appearance of the body.
noLabel	According to the Children's Defense Fund, 1 out of every 3 Black boys and 1 out of every 3 Hispanic boys are at risk of becoming delinquents in their lifetime, and therefore at risk of being sucked into this pipeline in which prison is the only option at the end of the tunnel .	Of course some people that are affected by the pipeline commit crimes and are imprisoned when they are older, say 20.
noLabel	By the post-pandemic period critics claimed the WHO had exaggerated the danger, spreading "fear and confusion" rather than "immediate information" .	Industry experts countered that the 2009 pandemic had led to "unprecedented collaboration between global health authorities, scientists and manufacturers, resulting in the most comprehensive pandemic response ever undertaken, with a number of vaccines approved for use three months after the pandemic declaration.
noLabel	They are invariably legitimate and legal in many countries, although concerns have arisen in recent years that they could be used to circumvent anti-money laundering and counter-terrorism financing controls that now operate across the global financial services sector.	Particular risks arise from the irregular forms of record-keeping which are often employed and the possibility that the laws of those countries in which they operate may not be fully complied with.
noLabel	The voluntary scheme requires a minimum of 12 months membership and a certain degree of employment during that time before any claims can be made.	Employers pay a fee on top of the pre-tax income of their employees, which together with membership fees, fund the scheme (see Unemployment funds in Sweden). 
noLabel	These two exemptions are directly tied to each other as the amount exempted from one reduces the amount that can be exempted from the other at a 1:1 ratio.	The inheritance/gift tax generally affects a very small percentage of the population as most citizens do not inherit anything from their deceased relatives in any given year.
noLabel	They have lobbied four Chief Inspector of Schools through the Select Committee on Education on the importance of children's rights in schools and school inspections .	They have addressed the UNESCO Conference of Education Ministers, lobbied and protested at the UN Special Conference on the Rights of the Child in New York.
noLabel	Sam Harris has responded at length to these criticisms, stating that this "passage seems to have been selectively quoted, and misconstrued, more than any I have written".	He further states that "This paragraph appears after a long discussion of the role that belief plays in governing human behavior, and it should be read in that context."
noLabel	In October 2005 a Nigerian man was cleared of a charge of reckless endangerment over the death of a baby from haemorrhage and shock after he had circumcised the child.	The judge directed the jury not to "bring what he called their white western values to bear when they were deciding this case" and after deliberating for an hour and a half they found the defendant not guilty .
noLabel	However, some Native Americans chose or were allowed to remain and avoided removal whereafter they were subjected to racist institutions in their ancestral homeland.	The Choctaws in Mississippi described their situation in 1849, "we have had our habitations torn down and burned, our fences destroyed, cattle turned into our fields and we ourselves have been scourged, manacled, fettered and otherwise personally abused, until by such treatment some of our best men have died.
noLabel	North Carolina is currently home to almost one hundred charter schools, its limit as per the legislation that passed in 1996 that legally allowed charter schools to exist in North Carolina .	This legislation also dictates that there will be no more than five charter schools operating within one school district during the same year.
noLabel	A U.S. Central Intelligence Agency report dated January 2001 speculated that Iran had manufactured and stockpiled chemical weapons – including blister, blood, choking, and probably nerve agents, and the bombs and artillery shells to deliver them.	It further claimed that during the first half of 2001, Iran continued to seek production technology, training, expertise, equipment, and chemicals from entities in Russia and China that could be used to help Iran reach its goal of having indigenous nerve agent production capability .
noLabel	" Only a week later, the third group, Ruzicka and A. Wettstein, announced a patent application in a paper "On the Artificial Preparation of the Testicular Hormone Testosterone (Androsten-3-one-17-ol).	" Ruzicka and Butenandt were offered the 1939 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work, but the Nazi government forced Butenandt to decline the honor, although he accepted the prize after the end of World War II . 
noLabel	Regarding the domestic use of nuclear power, Obama declared himself flatly opposed to building a nuclear waste repository in Nevada and has called for the facility's closure .	However, Obama voted for the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which allocated $4.3 billion in tax credits to the nuclear energy sector .
noLabel	They developed two methods during the wartime project, which both took advantage of the fact that uranium-238 has a slightly greater atomic mass than uranium-235: electromagnetic separation and gaseous diffusion&mdash;methods that separated isotopes based on their differing weights.	Another secret site was erected at rural Oak Ridge, Tennessee, for the large-scale production and purification of the rare isotope, which required considerable investment.
noLabel	Some of the mineral apatite in Florida used to produce phosphate for U.S.A. tobacco crops contains uranium, radium, lead 210 and polonium 210 and radon .	The radioactive smoke from tobacco fertilized this way is deposited in lungs and releases radiation even if a smoker quits the habit.
noLabel	Most notoriously, the Nazi administration in Germany under Adolf Hitler applied a similar term to their systematic replacement of the Jewish people.	When an area under Nazi control had its entire Jewish population removed, by driving the population out, by deportation to Concentration Camps and/or murder, that area was declared judenrein (lit.
noLabel	The rural poor smoked the minced tobacco, wrapped in maize husks, but the upper class of Andalusia urban areas would wrap the tobacco in paper.	The paper-wrapping trend was short-lived at the time however, because the Spanish government outlawed “white tobacco” in 1801 as some were smuggling tobacco illegally, labeling the contents as different substances that did not require taxation . 
noLabel	Fights could also end if broken up beforehand by crowd riot, police interference or chicanery, or if both men were willing to accept that the contest was a draw.	While fights could have enormous numbers of rounds, the rounds in practice could be quite short with fighters pretending to go down from minor blows to take advantage of the 30-second rest period.
noLabel	In many jurisdictions accessing blocked content is a serious crime, particularly content that is considered child pornography, a threat to national security, or an incitement of violence.	Thus it is important to understand the circumvention technologies and the protections they do or do not provide and to use only tools that are appropriate in a particular context.
noLabel	Peer-to-peer systems store content across a range of participating volunteer servers combined with technical techniques such as re-routing to reduce the amount of trust placed on volunteer servers or on social networks to establish trust relationships between server and client users.	Peer-to-peer system can be trusted as far as the operators of the various servers can be trusted or to the extent that the architecture of the peer-to-peer system limits the amount of information available to any single server and the server operators can be trusted not to cooperate to combine the information they hold. 
noLabel	Yet while tactical voting ΓÇô casting one's vote for a second-choice candidate with a better chance of winning than one's first choice ΓÇô can be both logical and desirable in plenty of ways, it is itself a second-best use of the right to vote.	There should be more anger about the fact that so many citizens feel forced to vote this way.Tactical voting is not unique to the first-past-the-post system.
noLabel	In the Sachsenhausen concentration camp, larger vans holding up to 100 people were used from November 1941, using the engine's exhaust rather than a cylinder .	These vans were introduced to the Chełmno concentration camp in December 1941, and another 15 of them were used by the Einsatzgruppen in the occupied Soviet Union .
noLabel	While relations have improved and an intentional nuclear exchange is more unlikely, the decay in Russian nuclear capability in the post Cold War era may have had an effect on the continued viability of the MAD doctrine.	An article by Keir Lieber and Daryl Press stated that the United States could carry out a nuclear first strike on Russia and would "have a good chance of destroying every Russian bomber base, submarine, and ICBM."
noLabel	Based on results of the Primary School Leaving Examination (PSLE), Singapore's students undergo secondary education in either the Special(Abolished in 2008), Express, Normal streams or the Integrated Programme (implemented in 2004).	Both the Special and Express are 4-year courses leading up to a Singapore-Cambridge General Certificate of Education (GCE) 'Ordinary' - 'O' level examination.
noLabel	However, as a philosopher, he did not advocate any concrete pedagogy, although he had some general views on the issue .	TCS views Popper's epistemology, as Popper himself, as a universal theory of how knowledge grows, and tries to work out its profound implications for educational theory.
noLabel	Cybersectarianism is a new organizational form which involves: "highly dispersed small groups of practitioners that may remain largely anonymous within the larger social context and operate in relative secrecy, while still linked remotely to a larger network of believers who share a set of practices and texts, and often a common devotion to a particular leader.	Overseas supporters provide funding and support; domestic practitioners distribute tracts, participate in acts of resistance, and share information on the internal situation with outsiders.
noLabel	A notable example of pipeline politics occurred at the beginning of the year 2009, wherein a dispute between Russia and Ukraine ostensibly over pricing led to a major political crisis.	Russian state-owned gas company Gazprom cut off natural gas supplies to Ukraine after talks between it and the Ukrainian government fell through.
noLabel	In accordance with the original definition of the term "patent," patents facilitate and encourage disclosure of innovations into the public domain for the common good.	If inventors did not have the legal protection of patents, in many cases, they would prefer or tend to keep their inventions secret .
noLabel	They would do well to remember that their own record of defending freedom of expression when the views being expressed run contrary to their own has been patchy at best."	He refers to Jyllands-Posten's own refusal to publish a cartoon that lampooned Jesus and the continued attempts by various western governments to gag Arab media channels, foremost among the Al Jazeera .
noLabel	New Trade theorists challenge the assumption of diminishing returns to scale, and some argue that using protectionist measures to build up a huge industrial base in certain industries will then allow those sectors to dominate the world market.	Less quantitative forms of the infant industry argument against totally free trade have been advanced by trade theorists since at least 1848.
noLabel	Cross-sectional surveys from 144 countries were used and overweight and obesity were defined as preschool children with values >3SDs from the mean .	They found an estimated 42 million obese children under the age of five in the world of which close to 35 million lived in developing countries.11 Additional findings included worldwide prevalence of childhood overweight and obesity increasing from 4.2% (95% CI: 3.2%, 5.2%) in 1990 to 6.7% (95% CI: 5.6%, 7.7%) in 2010 and expecting to rise to 9.1% (95% CI: 7.3%, 10.9%), an estimated 60 million overweight and obese children in 2020 .
noLabel	Ions of uranium-238 and uranium-235 are separated because they describe arcs of different radii when they move through a magnetic field.	This process was used in the Manhattan Project to make the highly enriched uranium used in the Hiroshima bomb, but was abandoned soon afterwards. 
noLabel	The May–July 2011 Greek protests, also known as the "Indignant Citizens Movement" or the "Greek indignados", started demonstrating throughout Greece on 25 May 2011; the movement's largest demonstration was on 5 June, with 300,000 people gathering in front of the Greek Parliament, while the organizers put the number to 500,000 .	The protests lasted for over a month without any violent incidents, while on 29 June 2011, amid a violent police crackdown and accusations of police brutality by international media and Amnesty International, the square was evacuated but demonstrations continued the next day despite the crackdown; they officially ended on 7 August 2011, but resumed in October. 
noLabel	The only four recorded events above a 6.0-magnitude (Mw) are the tall Koyna Dam in India which registered a Mw of 6.3 along with the Kremasta Dam in Greece which registered a 6.3-Mw as well.	Following those two, the next largest were the high Kariba Dam in Zambia at 6.25-Mw and the Xinfengjiang Dam in China at 6.1-Mw.
noLabel	The current plan will require Mexican soldiers accused of human rights abuses in their country to face the civil courts rather than courts-martial.	In response, members of the Mexican Congress raised objections because the conditions requiring monitoring of human rights violations are an infringement and violation of Mexican sovereignty, a particular point of sensitivity because Mexico is concerned in exercising its right to govern over its own country without foreign intervention.
noLabel	In contrast with the other permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, the United Kingdom currently operates only a single nuclear weapon delivery system since decommissioning its tactical WE.177 free-falling nuclear bombs in 1998.	The present system consists of four Vanguard class submarines based at HMNB Clyde, armed with up to 16 Trident missiles, which each carry nuclear warheads in up to eight MIRVs, performing both strategic and sub-strategic deterrence roles. 
noLabel	In November 2005 John Sentamu, the Archbishop of York, stated, "Multiculturalism has seemed to imply, wrongly for me: let other cultures be allowed to express themselves but do not let the majority culture at all tell us its glories, its struggles, its joys, its pains.	" The Bishop of Rochester Michael Nazir-Ali was also critical, calling for the Church to regain a prominent position in public life and blaming the "newfangled and insecurely founded doctrine of multiculturalism" for entrenching the segregation of communities . 
noLabel	On January 19, just before the beginning of the riots, the export of precious woods, which had been stockpiled for the past two years, was once again allowed.	This permitted the sale of 500,000 logs of rosewood, ebony, and palissandre, along with many more logs that appeared from hidden caches, thus increasing the pressure for renewed logging.
noLabel	The Roman Catholic Church, given its long history with the Vietnamese people, facilitated the relocation of a massive number of Vietnamese boat people through its many Orders and charities.	Of note was the work of the Vietnamese Refugee Office of Caritas Italiana, a major Catholic Italian charity, under the leadership of Monsignor Tran Van Hoai. 
noLabel	Senator Joe Lieberman, among the members of the U.S. Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee who had questioned Amazon in private communication on the company's hosting of WikiLeaks and the illegally obtained documents, commended Amazon for the action; WikiLeaks, however, responded by stating on its official Twitter page that "WikiLeaks servers at Amazon ousted.	Free speech the land of the free—fine our $ are now spent to employ people in Europe", and later that "If Amazon is so uncomfortable with the first amendment, they should get out of the business of selling books" . 
noLabel	For example, the Netherlands, once leader in use of palm oil as a biofuel, has suspended all subsidies for palm oil due to the scientific evidence that their use "may sometimes create more environmental harm than fossil fuels" .	The Netherlands government and environmental groups are trying to trace the origins of imported palm oil, to certify which operations produce the oil in a responsible manner .
noLabel	In absolute dollar terms, the United States is the largest international aid donor ($22.7 billion in 2006), but as a percent of gross national income, its contribution is only 0.2%, proportionally much smaller than contributions of countries such as Sweden (1.04%) and the United Kingdom (0.52%).	The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) manages the bulk of bilateral economic assistance; the Treasury Department handles most multilateral aid. 
noLabel	The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations states in its report The State of Food Insecurity in the World 2006, that while the number of undernourished people in the developing countries has declined by about three million, a smaller proportion of the populations of developing countries is undernourished today than in 1990–92: 17% against 20%.	Furthermore, FAO's projections suggest that the proportion of hungry people in developing countries could be halved from 1990–92 levels to 10% by 2015.
noLabel	In 2008, a team at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore concluded, in a systematic review of the medical literature, that "the best quality studies indicate no significant differences in long-term mental health between women in the United States who choose to terminate a pregnancy and those who do not.	" Dr. Robert Blum, the senior author on the study, stated: "The best research does not support the existence of a 'post-abortion syndrome' similar to post-traumatic stress disorder."
noLabel	"Justice Scalia then affirmed that, while states may pass laws to block obscene material from minors as previously decided in the 1968 Ginsberg v. New York case, "speech about violence is not obscene," and California's statute was unlawful .	The decision pointed to fairy tales like those of the Brothers Grimm, which are regularly given to children to read, "contain no shortage of gore" that are also present in video games .
noLabel	Although divorce was now legally recognized, thousands of women lost their lives for attempting to divorce their husbands and some committed suicide when the right to divorce was withheld .	Divorce, once seen as a rare act during the Mao era (1949-1976), has become more common with rates continuing to increase today .
noLabel	However, Heydrich addressed the meeting indicating the the policy of emigration was superseded by a policy of evacuating Jews to the east.	This was seen to be only a temporary solution leading up to a final solution which would involve some 11 million Jews living not only in territories controlled then by the Germans, but to major countries in the rest of the world including the UK, and the US .
noLabel	In a precursor to the American Revolution, Nathaniel Bacon led a revolt in 1676 against the Governor of Virginia and the system of exploitation he represented: exploitation of poorer colonists by the increasingly wealthy landowners where poorer people, regardless of skin color, fought side by side.	However, Bacon died, probably of dysentery; hundreds of participants in the revolt were lured to disarm by a promised amnesty; and the revolt lost steam . 
noLabel	The other initial members of the commission were former President of the Technion and military expert, Amos Horev, and professor of international law, Shabtai Rosenne, who died in September 2010.	The probe was overseen by two International observers: William David Trimble, former Leader of the Northern Irish Ulster Unionist Party and Northern Irish First Minister, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate, and Canadian former military judge Ken Watkin. 
noLabel	A ‘dependency syndrome’ has developed that is often pronounced among the poorer communities, for which the government funds assume greater significance relative to their earnings from production.	At least in some communities (Nueva Palestina) the incipient differentiation and the availability of government funds has led to tensions within the community: as to whether funds should go the better-off to further their entrepreneurial activities, or be reserved for the more disadvantaged sections of the community.
noLabel	When the surviving al-Samounis attempted to leave and make their way to Gaza City, they were told by an Israeli soldier to return to the house .	In April 2011, Goldstone wrote that the shelling of the home was apparently the consequence of an Israeli commander’s erroneous interpretation of a drone image .
noLabel	He was also accused by these critics for allowing and appointing liberal bishops in their sees and thus silently promoting Modernism, which was firmly condemned as the "synthesis of all heresies" by his predecessor Pope St. Pius X.	In 1988, the controversial traditionalist Archbishop Marcel Lefebvre, founder of the Society of St. Pius X (1970), was excommunicated under John Paul II because of the unapproved ordination of four bishops, which was called by the Holy See a "schismatic act". 
noLabel	During the Inquisition, the governments of Spain (and Italy, and sometimes France) prosecuted those Christians who publicly dissented from key doctrines of the Catholic Faith.	Believing that the souls of those deemed to be heretics were in danger of being consigned to hell, the authorities used whatever means they considered necessary to bring about a recantation.
noLabel	It is suggested by the Immigration and Naturalization Service that most name blunders were likely the fault of the origin and not the destination.	Donna Przecha, a published and well-known expert in genealogy, suggests a number of alternative explanations for name changing, one of which was a need for employment.
noLabel	Crimes of calumny, defamation and slanderous allegation (injurias) have been abolished in the Federal Penal Code as well as in 15 states.	These crimes remain in the penal codes of 17 states, where penalty is, in average, from 1.1 years (for ones convicted for slanderous allegation) to 3.8 years in jail (for those convicted for calumny) .
noLabel	The Israeli military said that in addition to medical aid and construction materials, they found knives, clubs, slingshots, bulletproof vests, gas masks, and night vision goggles aboard the Mavi Marmara .	A statement released by Foreign Affairs Minister Avigdor Lieberman claimed that violence against the soldiers was pre-planned, and that "light weaponry" was found on the ships, including pistols that had been seized from IDF commandos.
noLabel	Other than the actual smoking equipment, many other items are associated with smoking; cigarette cases, cigar boxes, lighters, matchboxes, cigarette holders, cigar holders, ashtrays, pipe cleaners, tobacco cutters, match stands, pipe tampers, cigarette companions and so on.	Many of these have become valuable collector items and particularly ornate and antique items can fetch high prices at the finest auction houses. 
noLabel	Typically LECs are calculated over 20 to 40 year lifetimes, and are given in the units of currency per kilowatt-hour, for example AUD/kWh or EUR/kWh or per megawatt-hour, for example AUD/MWh (as tabulated below) .	However, care should be taken in comparing different LCOE studies and the sources of the information as the LCOE for a given energy source is highly dependent on the assumptions, financing terms and technological deployment analyzed .
noLabel	It was passed to offer parents different options in regards to their children and the school they attend, all with most of the cost being covered by tax revenue.	There has recently been activity surrounding the issue of raising the state cap of one hundred to one hundred and ten.
noLabel	Although there are about 78,000 gun dealers in the U.S., ATF suggested that gun shows, thefts and private sales may be a greater source of trafficked Mexican guns than licensed dealers .	Gun smugglers are known to coerce or pay U.S. residents or citizens to purchase semi-automatic rifles and other firearms from gun shops or gun shows and then transfer them to a cartel representative .
noLabel	Tonga reserves the right not to apply the Convention to any restriction on the alienation of land held by indigenous Tongans.	Fiji has significant reservations around Article 5, and reserves the right not to implement those provisions if they are incompatible with existing law on voting rights, the alienation of land by indigenous Fijians .
noLabel	Although the Constitution had banned the importation of new African slaves in 1808, and in 1820 slave trade was equated with piracy, punishable by death, the practice of chattel slavery still existed for the next half century.	All slaves in only the areas of the Confederate States of America that were not under direct control of the United States government were declared free by the Emancipation Proclamation, which was issued on January 1, 1863 by President Abraham Lincoln .
noLabel	Rangel faced several Democratic primary challengers for his seat in 2010: Vincent Morgan, whose grassroots campaign bore many resemblances to Rangel's own against the scandal-plagued Adam Clayton Powell, Jr., in 1970; Adam Clayton Powell IV, who had previously challenged Rangel in 1994; labor activist and past primary candidate for statewide office Jonathan Tasini; and former Obama campaign official Joyce Johnson .	While Rangel's fund-raising was down from previous years, and he had paid nearly $2 million in legal fees, he still had far more cash available for the campaign than any of his challengers . 
noLabel	Although many Burmese fought initially for the Japanese, some Burmese, mostly from the ethnic minorities, also served in the British Burma Army .	The Burma Independence Army and the Arakan National Army fought with the Japanese from 1942 to 1944, but switched allegiance to the Allied side in 1945. 
noLabel	Emulating the Civil Rights Act of 1875, Kennedy's civil rights bill included provisions to ban discrimination in public accommodations, and to enable the U.S. Attorney General to join in lawsuits against state governments which operated segregated school systems, among other provisions.	However, it did not include a number of provisions deemed essential by civil rights leaders including protection against police brutality, ending discrimination in private employment, or granting the Justice Department power to initiate desegregation or job discrimination lawsuits .
noLabel	Corrado Zoli and Evelyn Waugh have argued that many Catholic clergy members participated directly or indirectly in Ustaša campaigns of violence .	The most notorious example is that of expelled Franciscan Miroslav Filipović, known as "the devil of Jasenovac" for running the Jasenovac concentration camp, where estimates of the number killed range between 49,600 and 600,000 .
noLabel	On 4 July 2008, Fallout 3 was refused classification by the OFLC due to the "realistic visual representations of drugs and their delivery method (bringing) the 'science-fiction' drugs in line with 'real-world' drugs.	" A revised version of the game was resubmitted to the OFLC and reclassified as MA 15+ on 7 August 2008 after drug names were changed .
noLabel	“Currently or in the near future, any number of cases are and will be working their way through the court system that would seek to prohibit any government regulation of.. commercial speech (e.g.	advertising or food labelling) on the grounds that such regulation would violate citizens’ and corporations’ First Amendment rights to free speech or free press.”
noLabel	Individuals and groups may be banned from assembling, especially those whose fundamental rights have been revoked and banned political parties .	The Love Parade decision (1 BvQ 28/01 and 1 BvQ 30/01 of 12 July 2001) determined that for an assembly to be protected it must comply with the concept of a constituent assembly, or the so-called narrow concept of assembly whereby the participants in the assembly must pursue a common purpose that is in the common interest .
noLabel	Furthermore, supporters argue that the total electricity generated from a large-scale array of dispersed wind farms, located in different wind regimes, cannot be accurately described as intermittent, because it does not start up or switch off instantaneously at irregular intervals .	With a small amount of supplementary peak-load plant, which operates infrequently, large-scale distributed wind power can substitute for some base-load power and be equally reliable . 
noLabel	4) That two umpires shall be chosen by the seconds or backers to watch the progress of the battle, and take exception to any breach of the rules hereafter stated.	That a referee shall be chosen by the umpires, unless otherwise agreed on, to whom all disputes shall be referred; and that the decision of this referee, whatever it may be, shall be final and strictly binding on all parties, whether as to the matter in dispute or the issue of the battle.
noLabel	Sudan has just completed a large dam at Merowe with a capacity of 1,250 MW, which substantially increases its installed capacity, and may not use the full amount of electricity foreseen to be exported from Ethiopia.	In any case, the two transmission lines would provide the capacity to export only 7% of the expected installed capacity in 2015. 
noLabel	A team of British scientists headed by Richard Doll carried out a longitudinal study of 34,439 medical specialists from 1951 to 2001, generally called the "British Doctors Study.	" The study demonstrated that about half of the persistent cigarette smokers born in 1900–1909 were eventually killed by their addiction (calculated from the logarithms of the probabilities of surviving from 35–70, 70–80, and 80–90) and about two thirds of the persistent cigarette smokers born in the 1920s would eventually be killed by their addiction.
noLabel	Sometimes this practice is taken to excess, and the head of state begins to believe that he is the only symbol of the nation, resulting in the emergence of a personality cult where the image of the head of state is the only visual representation of the country, surpassing other symbols such as the flag, constitution, founding father(s) etc.	Modern champions in this field include Adolf Hitler, Mao Zedong and Kim Jong Il, whose tenures as heads of state were or are accompanied by a significant cult of personality.
noLabel	While a few individuals seem to be born with cultural competence, the rest of us have had to put considerable effort into developing it.	This means examining our biases and prejudices, developing cross-cultural skills, searching for role models, and spending as much time as possible with other people who share a passion for cultural competence. 
noLabel	In May 2010, U.S. President Barack Obama signed legislation intended to promote a free press around the world, a bipartisan measure inspired by the murder in Pakistan of Daniel Pearl, the Wall Street Journal reporter, shortly after the September 11 attacks in 2001.	The legislation, called the Daniel Pearl Freedom of the Press Act, requires the United States Department of State to expand its scrutiny of news media restrictions and intimidation as part of its annual review of human rights in each country .
noLabel	In 1945, the Soviet intelligence obtained rough "blueprints" of the first U.S. atomic device, which may have contributed to the Soviet bomb project.	Scholar Alexei Kojevnikov has estimated, based on newly released Soviet documents, that the primary way in which the espionage may have sped up the Soviet project was that it allowed Khariton to avoid dangerous tests to determine the size of the critical mass: "tickling the dragon's tail", as it was called in the U.S., consumed a good deal of time and claimed at least two lives; see Harry K. Daghlian, Jr. and Louis Slotin. 
noLabel	In the United Kingdom, a packet of 20 cigarettes typically costs between £5.22 and £8.00 at 2007 prices, depending on the brand purchased and where the purchase was made .	The UK has a significant black market for tobacco, and it has been estimated by the tobacco industry that 27% of cigarette and 68% of handrolling tobacco consumption is non-UK duty paid (NUKDP) . 
noLabel	On behalf of the OIC, Khan said that the resolution will require people to exercise their freedom of expression responsibly .	This drew criticism from Reporters Without Borders, whose press statement read: "The growing influence of Organisation of the Islamic Conference member states within the Human Rights Council is disturbing.
noLabel	Heidi Posavac, Steven Posavac, and Emil Posavac found that young women who are already content with their bodies are generally unaffected by media images of models and other attractive women.	They concluded that only those who are dissatisfied with their bodies prior to viewing advertisements will then feel poorly after seeing advertisements featuring thin, attractive women . 
noLabel	These include the idea that circumcision 1) protects against disease, 2) secures cleanliness "in a way that is suited to the people consecrated to God", 3) causes the circumcised portion of the penis to resemble a heart, thereby representing a physical connection between the "breath contained within the heart [that] is generative of thoughts, and the generative organ itself [that] is productive of living beings", and 4) promotes prolificness by removing impediments to the flow of semen.	To these, Philo added two of his own reasons, including the idea that circumcision 5) "signified figuratively the excision of all superfluous and excessive pleasure" and 6) "that it is a symbol of a man's knowing himself". 
noLabel	Everyone has a right of access to documents of the State and municipal administration and a right to follow the proceedings of the courts and democratically elected bodies.	Limitations to this right may be prescribed by law to protect the privacy of the individual or for other weighty reasons. 
noLabel	Higher education differs from other forms of post-secondary education such as that offered by institutions of vocational education, which are more colloquially known as trade schools.	Higher vocational education might be contrasted with education in a usually broader scientific field, which might concentrate on theory and abstract conceptual knowledge.
noLabel	Following the implementation of Beveridge's recommendations, institutions run by local councils to provide health services for the uninsured poor, part of the poor law tradition of workhouses, were merged into the new national system.	As part of the reforms, the Church of England also closed down its voluntary relief networks and passed the ownership of thousands of church schools, hospitals and other bodies to the state . 
noLabel	In mid-June 2006, the two Democratic partners, James M. Copeland and Lynnette R. Jacquez, of the firm Copeland Lowery Jacquez Denton & White, told their Republican partners that they were leaving the firm.	The reason, they said, was that ethical and legal questions surrounding Lowery and the firm threatened to destroy their professional reputations and ruin their commercial prospects. 
noLabel	Boas developed the principle of cultural relativism and Malinowski developed the theory of functionalism as guides for producing non-ethnocentric studies of different cultures.	The books The Sexual Life of Savages in North-Western Melanesia, by Bronisław Malinowski, Patterns of Culture by Ruth Benedict, and Coming of Age in Samoa by Margaret Mead (two of Boas's students) are classic examples of anti-ethnocentric anthropology.
noLabel	However, analyst Barry Hessenius made a case that the excessive for-profit lobbying could be counteracted if there were more efforts to increase nonprofit lobbying and boost their effectiveness .	There is so much money that it has been described as a "flood" that has a "corrupting influence", so that the United States appears to be "awash" in interest groups .
noLabel	Harvey Goldberg stated that "Freedom of expression is the lifeblood of any free and open society and the commission embraces freedom of expression.	I think if you remove all the rhetoric, at the base of the debate that's been going on .. is a centuries-old debate about the appropriate role of the state in limiting freedom of expression in certain precise areas."
noLabel	A spokesman in the Fox News article says, "Reducing earmarks does not reduce government spending, and it does not prohibit spending upon those things that are earmarked.	What people who push earmark reform are doing is they are particularly misleading the public—and I have to presume it's not by accident."
noLabel	Another factor that contributed to the already growing inequality in the 20th century was computerization and growth in technology with electricity replacing manpower.	With this growing change in technology, the United States experienced increasing demand for skilled workers to use computers and operate the electrical inventions.
noLabel	The rules of succession may only be changed by an Act of Parliament; it is not possible for an individual to renounce his or her right of succession.	The Act of Settlement restricts the succession to the legitimate Protestant descendants of Sophia of Hanover (1630–1714), a granddaughter of James I. 
noLabel	From 1990 to 2004 Mao repeatedly petitioned the authorities for redress for her dismissal from work, her forced abortion, and the denial of other basic rights including that of freedom of expression.	She also made several attempts to initiate legal proceedings against the authorities in relation to these abuses, but courts repeatedly failed to respond or refused to file the cases. 
noLabel	The application of intellectual property rights allow companies to charge higher than the marginal cost of production in order to recoup the costs of research and development .	However, this immediately excludes from the market anyone who cannot afford the cost of the product, in this case a life saving drug.
noLabel	During the 1950s and 1960s, elaborate computerized early warning systems such as Defense Support Program were developed to detect incoming Soviet attacks and to coordinate response strategies.	During this same period, intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) systems were developed which could deliver a nuclear payload across vast distances, allowing the U.S. to house nuclear forces capable of hitting the Soviet Union in the American Midwest.
noLabel	Religion apologist John Bowker criticized the idea that "God" and "Faith" are viruses of the mind, suggesting that Dawkins' "account of religious motivation .. is .. far removed from evidence and data" and that, even if the God-meme approach were valid, "it does not give rise to one set of consequences .. Out of the many behaviours it produces, why are we required to isolate only those that might be regarded as diseased?	" Alister McGrath has responded by arguing that "memes have no place in serious scientific reflection", that there is strong evidence that such ideas are not spread by random processes, but by deliberate intentional actions, that "evolution" of ideas is more Lamarckian than Darwinian, and that there is no evidence (and certainly none in the essay) that epidemiological models usefully explain the spread of religious ideas .
noLabel	This new grouping acted as a prerequisite for the planned East Asia Community, which was supposedly patterned after the now-defunct European Community.	The ASEAN Eminent Persons Group was created to study the possible successes and failures of this policy as well as the possibility of drafting an ASEAN Charter. 
noLabel	Belgium) there can even be a practice to attribute the adjective "royal" on demand based on existence for a given number of years.	However, such political techniques can also be used by leaders without the formal rank of head of state, even party - and other revolutionary leaders without formal state mandate. 
noLabel	The Royal Australasian College of Physicians comments that "The difficulty with a procedure which is not medically indicated is whether it may still be in the child’s “best interests” (that is, in the case of circumcision, decreasing the risk of UTI and penile cancer, and ensuring acceptance within a religio-cultural group) on the one hand or whether it may constitute an assault upon the child and be a violation of human rights on the other.	Arguments to justify the "best interests" case are based upon data to suggest a decreased risk of medical conditions later in life, none of which, with the possible exception of UTIs in boys, requires a decision in the neonatal period, and this could be seen to be an argument to defer a decision until the individual can express his own preferences.
noLabel	However, since the early 1990s asylum has risen to become a major political issue in many developed countries, often bound up with wider issues of immigration and integration along the way.	Conflicts in places such as Bosnia, Somalia, Afghanistan and Kosovo, and dictatorships in countries like Zimbabwe and Iraq resulted in large numbers of asylum-seekers arriving in developed countries.
noLabel	Condoms were not promoted for disease prevention; the medical community and moral watchdogs considered STDs to be punishment for sexual misbehavior.	The stigma on victims of these diseases was so great that many hospitals refused to treat people who had syphilis .
noLabel	The question was mathematically inconsistent in that one will get one set of answers when worked out one way and another set of answers when worked out by a different method.	The Singapore Examinations and Assessments Board acknowledged the mistake a few days after the exam, annulling the question and awarding 2 marks to every student for the question .
noLabel	An HPV vaccine protects women against two HPV types which cause 70% of cervical cancers as well as two types associated with 90% of genital warts .	Ideally the woman should be vaccinated before initial sexual activity, since the vaccine is only effective before exposure to the HPV types. 
noLabel	Chairman of the House Oversight Committee, Darrell Issa, said the Department of Justice had "blood on their hands" for the ATF Project Gunrunner, which saw 2,020 firearms illegally bought and shipped to Mexico under ATF supervision .	US gun rights activists and other gun policy groups have called Project Gunrunner an attempt to undermine gun rights in the US and have called for a resignation of Attorney General Eric Holder. 
noLabel	The strategy of Mutually Assured Destruction and the acronym MAD are due to John von Neumann (1902–1957), who had a taste for humorous acronyms, another example being his MANIAC computer.	He was, among other things, the inventor of game theory, a cold war strategist, and chairman of the ICBM Committee until his untimely death in 1957. 
noLabel	The credibilities of a defending state's policies are arguably linked over time, and reputations for resolve have a powerful causal impact on an attacking state's decision whether to challenge either general or immediate deterrence.	The second approach argues that reputations have a limited impact on deterrence outcomes because the credibility of deterrence is heavily determined by the specific configuration of military capabilities, interests at stake, and political constraints faced by a defending state in a given situation of attempted deterrence.
noLabel	Nearly 1500 stakeholders attended Forest Day 3 held in Copenhagen, Denmark on 13 December 2009 including 34 donors, government representatives, 88 journalists, 500 NGO representatives, indigenous leaders, 188 private sector representatives and hundreds of scientists and forestry experts.	Their goal was to ensure that the design and implementation of forest-related climate mitigation and adaptation measures under consideration in the Climate Change Agreement would be effective, efficient and equitable. 
noLabel	Interpersonal violence is divided into two subcategories: Family and intimate partner violence – that is, violence largely between family members and intimate partners, usually, though not exclusively, taking place in the home.	Community violence – violence between individuals who are unrelated, and who may or may not know each other, generally taking place outside the home.
noLabel	An October 2011 survey of 500 business professionals asked "What Is Your Level Of Support For New Zealand Becoming A Republic?".	27% said not at all, 24% said somewhat opposed, 23.1% were neutral, 14.8% said moderately in favour and 11.1% said strongly in favour .
noLabel	In November 2009, The Washington Post reported that nuclear power is emerging as "..perhaps the world's most unlikely weapon against climate change, with the backing of even some green activists who once campaigned against it.	" The report said that rather than deride the potential for nuclear power, some environmentalists are embracing it, and that presently there is only "muted opposition" -- nothing like the protests and plant invasions that helped define the anti-nuclear movement in the United States during the 1970s . 
noLabel	Palin played flute in the junior high band, then attended Wasilla High School where she was the head of the Fellowship of Christian Athletes, and a member of the girls' basketball and cross country running teams .	During her senior year, she was co-captain and point guard of the basketball team that won the 1982 Alaska state championship, earning the nickname "Sarah Barracuda" for her competitive streak .
noLabel	The former top executive is then rewarded with a golden handshake for presiding over the fire sale that can sometimes be in the tens or hundreds of millions of dollars for one or two years of work.	(This is nevertheless an excellent bargain for the takeover artist, who will tend to benefit from developing a reputation of being very generous to parting top executives). 
noLabel	The campaign was revived in 2007, with a brochure being distributed and candidates being asked their views in the state election.	Active campaigning continued and in 2011, Premier Barry O'Farrell agreed to return New South Wales Governor Marie Bashir to Government House.
noLabel	It is estimated that a family of four can be made self-sufficient for about $300 (U.S.) – the cost of an Ox, a few hectares of land, and starter seeds.	Historically, such programs have been few and far between, with much foreign aid being concentrated on the raising of cash crops and large plantations rather than family farms . 
noLabel	It is thought by Leo Rosten, in his book, 'The Joys of Yiddish', that as soon as they left the boat, they were subject to racism from the port immigration authorities.	The derogatory term 'kike' was adopted when referring to Jews (because they often could not write so they may have signed their immigration papers with circles - or kikel in Yiddish) . 
noLabel	Once we acknowledge the similarity between conservative Christians and fascists, Hedges appears to suggest, we can confront Christian evil by setting aside 'the old polite rules of democracy.'	So wild conspiracy theories and visions of genocide are really excuses for the Left to disregard the rules of democracy and defeat conservative Christians — by any means necessary .
noLabel	Radiation poisoning, also called "radiation sickness" or a "creeping dose", is a form of damage to organ tissue due to excessive exposure to ionizing radiation.	The term is generally used to refer to acute problems caused by a large dosage of radiation in a short period, though this also has occurred with long term exposure to low level radiation.
noLabel	"Personality” Argument: this argument is based on a quote from Hegel: “Every man has the right to turn his will upon a thing or make the thing an object of his will, that is to say, to set aside the mere thing and recreate it as his own” .	European intellectual property law is shaped by this notion that ideas are an “extension of oneself and of one’s personality” . 
noLabel	He went upstairs and, using belts to fashion a noose, hung himself from the door in his bedroom, Don Hooton said.	Later, when Taylor's room was inspected by the police and his father, vials of steroids, along with syringes and needles, were found.
noLabel	The report outlined recommendations and practical solutions on how the Western and Islamic societies can solve misconceptions and misunderstandings between them.	According to the report, "politics, not religion, is at the heart of growing Muslim-Western divide", although a large emphasis is maintained on religion .
noLabel	In May 2010, a poll by Angus Reid found that more than two-thirds of Canadians, a 69% majority, would like to see a Canadian serving as Canada's head of state, and a 52% majority of Canadians support reopening the constitutional debate to discuss replacing the monarchy with an elected head of state, while only 32% oppose doing so.	Despite 69% of Canadians having a "mostly favourable" opinion of Queen Elizabeth II as a person, only one third, 33%, of Canadians preferred Canada to remain a monarchy - the plurality 36% of Canadians said they would prefer to have an elected head of state, another 21% were indifferent, and 11% were unsure.
noLabel	In their view, the protection of insurance company profits is not a sufficient "public purpose" to warrant the interference in personal freedoms by way of censorship.	The ultimate aim of the government and insurers, according to such consumer groups, is to eliminate the expression "personal injury compensation" from the Australian vocabulary and to dissuade citizens from exercising compensation rights by making it "distasteful" to do so. 
noLabel	D'Souza argued that it was wrong for government to try to bring his daughter down, or to force him to raise up other people's children .	But a counterargument is that there is a benefit to everybody, including D'Souza's daughter, to have a society with less anxiety about downward mobility, less class resentment, and less possible violence . 
noLabel	In 2009, the human population increased by 74.6 million, which is projected to fall steadily to about 41 million per annum in 2050, at which time the population will have increased to about 9.2 billion .	Each region of the globe has seen great reductions in growth rate in recent decades, though growth rates remain above 2% in some countries of the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa, and also in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and Latin America . 
noLabel	 Belarus' Press Secretary Andrei Savinykh condemned the Israeli attack, stating that Belarus is "very concerned" by the situation, "deplores" the use of force and considers Israel's actions to be "a gross violation of international law."	He stressed the need for a full investigation into what happened and for all interested countries to calm tensions so that comprehensive peace talks could begin .
noLabel	The environmental impact of reservoirs is coming under ever increasing scrutiny as the world demand for water and energy increases and the number and size of reservoirs increases.	Dams and the reservoirs can be used to supply drinking water, generate hydroelectric power, increasing the water supply for irrigation, provide recreational opportunities and to improve certain aspects of the environment.
noLabel	Although the structural model provided by the University of Paris, where student members are controlled by faculty “masters,” provided a standard for universities, the application of this model took at least three different forms.	There were universities that had a system of faculties whose teaching was centralized around a very specific curriculum; this model tended to train specialists.
noLabel	In vaults with roundoff entries, gymnasts "round-off" so hands are on the runway while the feet land on the springboard (beatboard).	From the roundoff position the gymnast travels backwards as in a backhandspring so that the hands land on the vaulting platform (horse).
noLabel	Among the members were former Iranian President Mohammad Khatami, who proposed the Dialogue Among Civilizations initiative, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, South African Nobel laureate, Prof. Pan Guang, who obtained the Saint Petersburg-300 Medal for Contribution to China-Russia Relations, and Arthur Schneier, who is the founder and president of the “Appeal of Conscience Foundation” and who gained the "Presidential Citizens Medal”.	The HLG met 5 times between November 2005 and November 2006, and produced a report prioritising relations between the Western and Muslim societies. 
noLabel	According to the Historia Augusta, the Roman emperor Hadrian issued a decree banning circumcision in the empire, and some modern scholars argue that this was a main cause of the Jewish Bar Kokhba revolt of 132 CE .	The Roman historian Cassius Dio, however, made no mention of such a law, and blamed the Jewish uprising instead on Hadrian's decision to rebuild Jerusalem as Aelia Capitolina, a city dedicated to Jupiter. 
noLabel	The order provided that the Civil Service Commission (CSC) would be able to hear complaints of sex-based discrimination from employees of the federal government one month after the order was issued.	As of one year after its issuance, it authorized the Bureau of Labor to investigate and address similar complaints from those employed by government contractors .
noLabel	A multiplayer video game is one which more than one person can play in the same game environment at the same time.	Unlike most other games, computer and video games are often single-player activities that put the player against preprogrammed challenges and/or AI-controlled opponents, which often lack the flexibility and ingenuity of regular human thinking. 
noLabel	Kerckhoffs' principle is based on the idea that an enemy can steal a secure military system and not be able to compromise the information.	His ideas were the basis for many modern security practices, and followed that security through obscurity is a bad practice .
noLabel	The importance of personal relationships in lobbying can be seen in the state of Illinois, in which father-son ties helped push a smart-grid energy bill, although there were accusations of favoritism .	And there is anecdotal evidence that a business firm seeking to profitably influence legislation has to pay particular attention to which lobbyist it hires . 
noLabel	Some of the earliest gun-control legislation at the state level were the "black codes" that replaced the "slave codes" after the Civil War, attempting to prevent blacks' having access to the full rights of citizens, including the right to keep and bear arms .	Laws of this type later used racially neutral language to survive legal challenge, but were expected to be enforced against blacks rather than whites . 
noLabel	One study found that homicide rates as a whole, especially homicides as a result of firearms use, are not always significantly lower in many other developed countries.	This is apparent in the UK and Japan, which have very strict gun control laws, while Israel, Canada and Switzerland at the same time have lower homicide rates and high rates of gun distribution.
noLabel	Byrd and his close political allies were pressing for extreme measures (such as closing schools) in response to integration, and Stanley realized that action had to be taken soon or integration would occur before these measures could be enacted .	In this regard, Stanley was going against the Byrd Organization, which believed that public opinion would become even more extreme during the summer and give the organization greater political capital and freedom of movement .
noLabel	After HEW gathered statistics and discovered disparities in men's and women's wages and patterns of promotion in higher education, it established a special division devoted to investigating complaints against colleges and universities, the Office of Civil Rights and was assigning field staff as early as July 1968 .	Discrimination in higher education was sufficiently highlighted that Congress addressed it in the Education Amendments of 1972, the landmark legislation known as Title IX. 
noLabel	The ICJ is composed of 15 judges elected to nine year terms by the UN General Assembly and the UN Security Council.	The court's "advisory opinion" can be requested only by specific United Nations organisations, and is inherently non-binding under the Statute of the court. 
noLabel	Thus, grid energy storage is one method that the operator of an electrical power grid can use to adapt energy production to energy consumption, both of which can vary randomly over time.	This is done to increase efficiency and lower the cost of energy production, or to facilitate the use of intermittent energy sources. 
noLabel	Of particular significance in the context of later events was the disintegration, by 1999, of the processes for dealing with foreign national criminals held within UK prisons awaiting deportation.	This process was administered by IND in Croydon and had built up long standing processes to liaise with prisons, courts and the Immigration Service in arranging the deportation of those who had been recommended for deportation by courts or whose removal was “conducive to the public good”.
noLabel	Note that failed does not exist as a formal grade, but should the student fail to pass a course this is reported as ***, referring to a footnote explaining that the pupil "lacks foundation for a grade", however, many people do consider failed (Icke godkänd (IG)) to be an actual grade and often refer to *** as such.	Pupils do not start receiving official grades until the 8th grade, although it's not uncommon that tests are marked with grades prior to that.
noLabel	Even tentative supporters of r/K theory, such as Anthony Walsh, voice agreement with Rushton's critics that the theory as presented is highly susceptible to misuse in the form of support for racist ideologies .	Also, the utility of the general r/K theory has been criticized, and it is currently a less popular theoretical framework in evolutionary biology: in a review of the status of the theory in 1992, Stearns noted that from 1977 to 1982 there were an average of 42 references to the theory per year in the BIOSIS literature search service, but from 1984 to 1989 the average dropped to 16 per year and continued to decline.
noLabel	The "High Representative for the Alliance of Civilizations" is the title of the primary leadership position of the AoC, who is to function as political facilitator and lead spokesman, and to consult directly with the United Nations Secretary General.	In April 2007, the UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon appointed the position of High Representative to Jorge Sampaio, former president of Portugal. 
noLabel	In Germany, hundreds of thousands of people have invested in citizens' wind farms across the country and thousands of small and medium sized enterprises are running successful businesses in a new sector that in 2008 employed 90,000 people and generated 8 percent of Germany's electricity .	Wind power has gained very high social acceptance in Germany, with the development of community wind farms playing a major role .
noLabel	He claimed in an interview with ABC News that the Pakistan Government, under Shaukat Aziz, and President Pervez Musharraf forced him to be a "scapegoat" for the "national interest".	He also denied ever traveling to Iran or Libya, and claimed that North Korea's nuclear program was well advanced before his visit . 
noLabel	On May 11, 1994, two scientists, Compton Tucker and David Skole, presented the results of a NASA survey at the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs of the United States Congress, a formal scientific assessment of deforestation in Brazil aimed at putting to rest the debate on the rate of forest removal and questions on the effectiveness at Brazilian environmental policies.	Whilst undertaking a monitoring and complete assessment was very difficult due to the size of the rainforest, they concluded that satellite observations had shown a reduction in the rate of forest removal between 1992 and 1993 and that World Bank estimates of 600,000 square kilometers (12%) cleared by that year appeared to be exaggerated.
noLabel	Immigration (derived from Latin: migratio) is the act of foreigners passing or coming into a country for the purpose of permanent residence.	Immigration is made for many reasons, including economic, political, family re-unification, natural disaster, poverty or the wish to change one's surroundings voluntarily.
noLabel	Most linguists agree that the reconstructed Proto-Indo-European form was based on the root , which meant either "to call" or "to invoke" .	The Germanic words for God were originally neuter—applying to both genders—but during the process of the Christianization of the Germanic peoples from their indigenous Germanic paganism, the word became a masculine syntactic form . 
noLabel	The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, specifically forbids, the existence of "political parties and other organizations whose programmes are based upon totalitarian methods and the modes of activity of nazism, fascism and communism, as well as those whose programmes or activities sanction racial or national hatred, the application of violence for the purpose of obtaining power or to influence the State policy, or provide for the secrecy of their own structure or membership".	, people are sometimes convicted and/or detained for about one day for insults to religious feeling (of the Roman Catholic Church) or to heads of state who are not yet, but soon will be, on Polish territory.
noLabel	Some UTI studies have been criticized for not taking into account a high rate of UTI's among premature infants, who are usually not circumcised because of their fragile health status .	The AMA stated that "depending on the model employed, approximately 100 to 200 circumcisions would need to be performed to prevent 1 UTI," and noted one decision analysis model that concluded that circumcision was not justified as a preventative measure against UTI .
noLabel	Library books are more readily available to Americans than to people in Germany, Britain, France, the Netherlands, Austria and all the Mediterranean nations.	The average American borrowed more library books in 2001 than his or her peers in Germany, Austria, Norway, Ireland, Luxembourg, France and throughout the Mediterranean .
noLabel	According to Bertrand Russell, however, the enlightenment was a phase in a progressive development, which began in antiquity, and that reason and challenges to the established order were constant ideals throughout that time.	Russell argues that the enlightenment was ultimately born out of the Protestant reaction against the Catholic counter-reformation, when the philosophical views of the past two centuries crystallized into a coherent world view.
noLabel	The two senators did concede that the stimulus has had a positive effect on the economy, though they criticized it for failing to give "the biggest bang for our buck" on the issue of job creation.	CNN noted that the two senators' stated objections were brief summaries presenting selective accounts that were unclear, and the journalists pointed out several instances where they created erroneous impressions . 
noLabel	Scholar and representative Lee H. Hamilton asserted that the "historic mission of Congress has been to maintain freedom" and insisted it was a "driving force in American government" and a "remarkably resilient institution.	" Congress is the "heart and soul of our democracy", according to this view, even though legislators rarely achieve the prestige or name recognition of presidents or Supreme Court justices; one wrote that "legislators remain ghosts in America's historical imagination" .
noLabel	The American corporate media lobby has been involved in the shaping of media ownership regulations since the early days of the industry .	In that time, they have repeatedly sought their own interests by direct lobbying, in many cases at the expense of the public interest .
noLabel	The human penis differs from those of most other mammals, as it has no baculum, or erectile bone, and instead relies entirely on engorgement with blood to reach its erect state.	It cannot be withdrawn into the groin, and it is larger than average in the animal kingdom in proportion to body mass.
noLabel	There are also issues with the uniformity of this method not just across multiple individuals, but also for a single person: it "may not be uniform across the entire day or across days of the week" .	There is also the issue of whether any enjoyment of the activity should be deducted from the opportunity cost estimate . 
noLabel	With the consolidation of Protestantism, the extirpation of 'heretics' became a much broader and more complex enterprise, complicated by the politics of territorial Protestant powers, especially in northern Europe.	Persecution of Protestant groups ended only as Europe's rulers tired of fighting each other, despite the objections of the Pope, especially at the end of the Thirty Years' War.
noLabel	Shortly afterwards, refugees from Kenya and Uganda, fearing discrimination from their own national governments, began to arrive in Britain; as they had retained their British nationality granted by the 1948 Act, they were not subject to the later controls.	The Conservative MP Enoch Powell campaigned for tighter controls on immigration which resulted in the passing of the Commonwealth Immigrants Act in 1968 . 
noLabel	The Chinese Imperial examination system seem started in 165 BC, when certain candidates for public office were called to the Chinese capital for examination of their moral excellence by the emperor.	Over the following centuries the system grew until finally almost anyone who wished to become an official had to prove his worth by passing written government examinations.
noLabel	|- President Hugo Chávez expressed his solidarity with the Palestinian peoples and proposes "a massive campaign to condemn the violent actions [by Israel] where they try to annihilate the life expectancy of a whole race" .	On January 5, Chavez called the violence "state terrorism", saying of the attacks "the Holocaust, that is what is happening right now in Gaza" .
noLabel	The law in a given jurisdiction may never actually use the term "age of majority" and the term thereby refers to a collection of laws bestowing the status of adulthood.	The age of majority is a legally fixed age, concept, or statutory principle, which may differ depending on the jurisdiction, and may not necessarily correspond to actual mental or physical maturity of an individual. 
noLabel	In Bahrain, plotting to topple the regime, collaborating with a foreign hostile country and threatening the life of the Emir are defined as treason and punishable by death.	The State Security Law of 1974 was used to crush dissent that could be seen as treasonous, which was criticised for permitting severe human rights violations in accordance with Article One: . 
noLabel	H. Allen Orr also attributed many of the historical religious violent activities to the secular and political roles that were performed by the church in the past and noted that the recent absence of religion among the government of modern communist nations did not lead to Mao Zedong, Pol Pot, or Joseph Stalin leading any less violently .	In response to some apologists who note that the lack of religion did not prevent many modern dictators from committing great acts of violence, Christopher Hitchens said: "it is interesting to find that people of faith now seek defensively to say that they are no worse than fascists or Nazis or Stalinists.
noLabel	Another method is to make a general threat of violence, for example a bomb threat which has the effect of closing a particular polling place, thus making it difficult for people in that area to vote .	One notable example of outright violence was the 1984 Rajneeshee bioterror attack, where followers of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh deliberately contaminated salad bars in The Dalles, Oregon, in an attempt to weaken political opposition during county elections. 
noLabel	According to the U.S.-Japan Status of Forces Agreement U.S. personnel have partial extraterritorial right, so in most cases suspects were not arrested by Japanese authorities .	In 1995, the abduction and rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan schoolgirl by two U.S. Marines and one U.S. sailor led to demands for the removal of all U.S. military bases in Japan.
noLabel	Since some people do not answer calls from strangers, or refuse to answer the poll, poll samples may not be representative samples from a population due to a non-response bias.	Because of this selection bias, the characteristics of those who agree to be interviewed may be markedly different from those who decline.
noLabel	Because of this nature, austerity programs in general often are virulently opposed by the populations experiencing them, as they tend to have an impact on the poorest segments of the population.	Those who are pro-austerity (who usually refer to the process as "deficit reduction") usually counter that these poorest segments of the population would also suffer the most should a debt crisis occur, an argument rejected by most anti-austerity individuals. 
noLabel	This concept was later taken up by David Roediger in his 1999 book, The Wages of Whiteness: Race and the Making of the American Working Class .	Theorists associated with the journal Race Traitor, such as editor Noel Ignatiev, argue that whiteness (as a marker of a social status within the United States) is conferred upon people in exchange for an expectation of loyalty to an oppressive social order.
noLabel	In the six years from 2000–2006, the USA spent $4.7 billion on Plan Colombia, an effort to eradicate coca production in Colombia.	The main result of this effort was to shift coca production into more remote areas and force other forms of adaptation.
noLabel	The Atoms for Peace program, begun in 1953, was also in part political: the U.S. was better poised to commit various scarce resources, such as enriched uranium, towards this peaceful effort, and to request a similar contribution from the Soviet Union, who had far fewer resources along these lines; thus the program had a strategic justification as well, as was later revealed by internal memos.	This overall goal of promoting civilian use of nuclear energy in other countries, while also preventing weapons dissemination, has been labeled by many critics as contradictory and having led to lax standards for a number of decades which allowed a number of other nations, such as India, to profit from dual-use technology (purchased from nations other than the U.S.). 
noLabel	Originating about 1650 to 1700, it was sparked by philosophers Baruch Spinoza (1632–1677), John Locke (1632–1704), Pierre Bayle (1647–1706), physicist Isaac Newton (1643–1727), and historian Voltaire (1694–1778).	The wide distribution of the printing press, invented in Europe in 1440, made possible the rapid dispersion of knowledge and ideas which precipitated the Enlightenment.
noLabel	The German military was the first to promote condom use among its soldiers, beginning in the second half of the 19th century .	Early 20th century experiments by the American military concluded that providing condoms to soldiers significantly lowered rates of sexually transmitted diseases .
noLabel	Water resource, such as lakes and aquifers, are usually renewable resources which naturally recharge (the term fossil water is sometimes used to describe aquifers which don't recharge).	Overexploitation occurs if a water resource, such as the Ogallala Aquifer, is mined or extracted at a rate that exceeds the recharge rate, that is, at a rate that exceeds the practical sustained yield.
